Accrdent fo Deccan Avritian 1s Jad
Hell 0G 1 3 Helieopte yp Aron
March 2002 at Kovvadalant

hot (Andina rade ody

,; REPORT OF
" THE COMMITTEE OF INQUIRY
¥.
;
’
v
>
a
ry
$
+
|
*
-
. Lt. General A.Natarajan, AVSM,VSM
» Chairman
*, Committee of Inquiry
2
7
7 ©
ia Member Member Secretary
ly Mr. Yashpal ‘ Mr.Bir Singh Rat
(¥ Sr. Manager Regional Controller of Air Safety
* Pawan Hans Helicopters Ltd. Civil Aviation Department
§ ~ New Delhi Hyderabad
{-
cd
i *%
i *,
i:

PART SUBJECT PAGE NO
A Introduction 2

B Factual Information 8

c Analysis 21

D Conclusion 26

E Recommendation 28

F Acknowledgement 29

REPORT OF C
AVIATION PVT MITTEE OF INQUIRY ON THE ACCIDENT INVOLVING DECCAN
KOVVADALANKA VILLAGE BELL 206 HELICOPTER VT-DAP ON 3.3.2002 AT

NEAR ELURU, ANDHRA PRADESH.

1 Aircraft
Type and Model Bell 206 B-3 Helicopter
Engine
Maker . Rolis Royce
Type : Allison 250-C 20B
Engine S/N: CAE 835829
2 Nationality - Indian
3 Registration > VT-DAP
4. Nameofthe Owner Helicopter Leasing International Inc.
FUKUSEL Building, 7" Floor. 1-6-19
Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 1030028
5. Name ofthe Operator : Deccan Aviation Pvt. Ltd.,
Jakkur Aerodrome, Bellary Road,
Bangalore.
6. Name of the Pilot-in-Command : Capt. G.V.Menon
7. Date and time of accident - 03.03.2002 about 07:50 Hrs.(IST)
8. Last point of departure : Bhimavaram ( Andhra Pradesh)
9. Point of intended landing of aircraft - Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh)
10. Place & location of accident -  Kovvadalanka Village near Eluru(A.P)
Long-16 ° 36’ and 42" & Lat -81°.
441° and 09”.
11. Nature of Accident - Helicopter tail boom along-with

tail rotor sheared off due to impact of water,
while hovering over Fish Pond.

Co CCCi4#é4é#éw4......#._........__


PART A

INTRODUCTION

~~ “MW

(

onboard.

On 3.3.2002 at 0700 Hrs(iST)

There were three persons on board namely, the Pilot-in-Command Capt.G.V.Menon,

Hon'ble Lok Sabha Speaker Shri G.M.C. Balayogi and his Personal Assistant Shri K.S. Raju

at the time of the accident. The helicopter took-off from S.R.K Engineering College Helipad
at about 0735 Hrs(IST). The weather prevailing at Bhimavaram at the time of departure was

normal and the visibility was good. The same was stated and confirmed by Capt Ravinder

Singh and Capt A.P.S Bhaittal pilot of other two helicopters VT-DAK and VT-DAL,

respectively, wno had taken off from the same helipad little earlier to Capt G.V.Menon

(Exhibit No 1) Shri P.Mukherjee, technician stated that the take-off was normal (Exhibit

No 2) After approximately 15 minutes of flight towards Hyderabad. the helicopter was first

sighted by owners of Venkatramana I ih Pond over the Kovvadalanka Village

a Ane

a? a a as

dew

y

“woke au

Tt Wi
ie eye Witness, Shri Mungari Durga R

(Exhibit No 3) and also Stated th

80 Stated that he heard the sound of helicopter
at he was unable to see

the helicopter from OO Ne
due to thick fog brevailing at t

20 maters
hat time The eye-witness stated that he could see the

hitting the water with heavy thud noise.

Immediately, the helicopter rose up in the air and
Passed through

the coconut trees on the bank of the fi

sh pond and touched one of the
coconut trees at about 10 feet height from water level.

According to the eye-witness, the

After crash landing, on the eastern bund of fish tank, the helicopter was totally
smashed and completely broken (

also placed at Exhibit no. 6). All the persons on board
received fatal injuries. The Persons working in the fish ponds rushed to the spot after a little
while and could see the pilot struggling for life while other persons were already dead.
Within few minutes, the pilot also died without receiving first aid.

Shri Mani stated (Exhibit No.4) that having recognised the occupant as Hon'ble
Speaker Shri G.M.C.Balayogi , he informed the local police through his cellular phone. The
local police authorities immediately arrived at the site of the accident to take necessary action

and lodged FIR (Exhibit no.24). The bodies of Shri G.M.C Balayogi, Shri K.S.Raju and the

Pilot G.V.Menon were retrieved from the helicopter and shifted to Eluru Government Hospital

The Governr : :
. Ment of India constituted a Committee of Inquiry under Rule 74 of the
reraft Rules
- 1937 under the Chairmanship of Lt Gen.A Natarajan. AVSM.VSM Sh
Yashpal, Sr m | |
anager Engg, Pawan Hans Helicopters Ltd, as member and Sh Bir Singh Rai.

Regional Controller of Air Safety as member secretary

T . :

he DGCA officials from Air Safety accompanied by Airworthiness department were
rushed to the site of accident from Hyderabad immediately on receipt of information of the
accident. The Director General of Civil Aviation Shri H.S.Khola, the Chairman of the

Committee of Inquiry Lt.Gen.A.Natarajan, AVSM,VSM with other members arrived at the

crash site on 4.3.2002 at 1130 Hrs(IST) to obtain the first hand account of accident
The statements from the eye

-witnesses and police officials were recorded. The

wreckage and situations were photographed and thoroughly inspected. The helicopter parts
were separated at accident site for transportation and further investigation. The wreckage
was shifted manually to boats and brought to road head and loaded into truck for shifting to
Bangaiore and was held under the safe custody of Controller of Airworthiness, Bangalore
The vital components viz.., part of the tail-boom, engine, fuel samples from the barrels, fuel

filter and main drive shaft were handed over to the various agencies in India and abroad for
detailed investigation.

The Chairman of Inquiry Committee along-with the members held public hearing at

Bhimavaram and Eluru on 8.4.2002 so that additional information , if any, which may be

useful for the investigation, could be obtained. A large number of representations from

1

various groups representing various interests were received and studied. The committee

visited and inspected the office and maintenance facilities of The Deccan Aviation Pvt. Ltd at

Bangalore. An interim report was submitted to Government of India, Ministry of Civil Aviation.

FORE

,

‘ SF ie te | 6

oar wan)

a ie oY

ne

=

see we

ake

ne
One of the Members of the committee, Shri Yashp

al visited Indianapolis, USA te
oversee the testing of the engine

at the facilities of the Rolls Royce, the original mantifacturer

of the engine. M/s Rolls Royce, USA has submi

tted the test report of the engine (Exhibit
No.5)

After going through all the Statements and investigation reports, the committee

deliberated to conclude its finding and submit the report.

INITIATION OF INVESTIGATION:

On receiving the information about the accident, Shri Bir Singh Rai, Regional
Controller of Air Safety, Hyderabad and Shri L.Sadasivam, Controller of Airworthiness
Hyderabad were asked by the office of DGCA to rush to the accident site immediately whict
is about 350 Kms away from Hyderabad. The officers arrived at the accident site by road on
4.3.2002 at 0830 Hrs(IST). Initially, Shri Bir Singh Rai, Regional Controller of Air Safety.
Hyderabad was appointed as Inspector of Accident, under Rule 71 of Aircraft Rules, 1937 by
the Director General of Civil Aviation vide Lr.No.AV.15013/3/2002-AS dated 33.2002 to
investigate the accident.

The Govt. of India, Ministry of Civil Aviation constituted a Committee of Inquiry under
Rule 74 of Aircraft Rules, 1937 vide Notification No.AV.15013/3/2002-VE dated 3.3.2002 to
investigate the accident. The Committee was headed by Lt.Gen.A.Natarajan, AVSM, VSM
with Shri Yashpal, Senior Manager(Engg.},Pawan Hans Helicopters Ltd, New Deihi as
member and Shri Bir Singh Rai, Regional Controller of Air Safety, Hyderabad as Member-
Secretary. The Headquarters of the Committee was at New Dethi.

The Committee carried out the examination of wreckage and inspected the place

where the helicopter reportedly hit the water Extensive photographs (Exhibit No.6) were

V eye ar ay el ae are ee ST | Od

y

taken The committee also examined the key eye winesses and police officials and recorded

their statements as below

Shri Mungari Durga Rao... Exhibit No.3
Shri Moru Manikyala Rao alias Mani, . Exhibit No.4
Smt. Jaya mangala Ravulamma, ..... ... Exhibit No.7
Shri Mungare Salhyanarayana, .. ... Exhibit No.8
Shri Tirupati Venkanna, ................. Exhibit No.9
Shri Jayamangala Kannaiah, . .. Exhibit No.10
Shri Mandala Anjaneyulu, ...................Exhibit No.11
Shri P.Rambabuy, ....00.00..0..0............... Exhibit No.12

The statement (Exhibit No. 13) of Supdt. Of Police, West Godavari Distt. and statement

(Exhibit No. 14) of Dy. Supdt. of Police, Narsapur (sub-division of West Godavari Distt.) were

also recorded .
During the course of enquiry, the Committee visited the Bhimavaram helipad from

where the helicopter had earlier taken off for the fateful flight.

The wreckage of crashed helicopter was dismantled with the help of local labour and
the technicians from the Deccan Aviation Ltd., Bangalore. Because of the extent of the
damage and location and situation of the helicopter, some portion of wreckage of the
helicopter had to be cut and separated for the transportation purpose. A due care was taken
to ensure that loss of evidence/damage was restricted to bare minimum and all vital
components viz., transmission assembly and the engine, instrument panel, fuel filter etc.
were taken out with minimum damage possible. The wreckage was subsequently stored at

Bangalore in the safe custody of Controller of Airworthiness Bangalore .

It was observed after pulling of the tail of the helicopter from the water that certain
portion of tail-boom along-with tail-rotor blades was missing. A prolonged search for the
same was carried out with the help of local villagers. Ultimately, two broken tail-rotor blades
were found floating on the water surface in the Venkata Ramana Fish Pond and the portion
of the tail-boom along-with the tail rotor gear box and tail-rotor hub were pulled out of the
bottom surface of the tank at about 75 meters from the shore, confirming the fact that the
helicopter first hit the water and lost both of its tail-rotor blades and part of the tail-boom, as
stated by the eye-witness. After removing the transmission assembly from the wreckage it
was observed that the rotation of mast was free and without any excessive friction. Similarly
compressor and the turbine when rotated with the hand, rotated freely. A decision was

taken to send the following items for further investigation :

a) Fuel sample from the barrels utilized for refuelling to Director General of Civ

Aviation(DGCA) Laboratory, New Delhi, for quality and contamination, if any.

b) Small available quantity of fuel drained from the Low oressure fuel filter to DGCA Lab

for quality control check and contamination, if any

c) The broken portion of the tail-boom to National Aerospace Labcratory. Bangalore for

investigating the cause of fracture.
d) The Main Drive shaft to National Aerospace Laboratory, Bangalore for investigation

e) Helicopter engine (Allison 250 C 20J S.No.835829) to Original Engine Manufacturer

M/s Rolls Royce, Indianapolis, U.S.A. to determine the state/serviceability of engine at the
time of accident.

f) The Engine low pressure Fuel Filter to M/s Rolls Royce, Indianapolis, USA for signs

of any debris or congestant present in the fuel tank/filtration system.

DT iD eS

ote Yaar’

PART B

FACTUAL INFORMATION

Me...

PART B

1. FACTUAL INFORMATION

4.4 History of Flight

4.4.4,
Bell 206 B-3 Helicopter with registration No. VT-DAP was leased from Helicopter

Leasing International Inc., Tokyo, Japan and operated by Deccan Aviation Pvt Ltd.( Non-
scheduled operator Permit No.2/97 issued on 42.9.1997 and valid upto 41.09.2002) with its
Head Office located at Bangalore. The helicopter was hired by Global Peace Initiative. a
voluntary social organization to fly Hon’ble Lok Sabha Speaker Shri G.M C.Balayogi from
Bhimavaram(West Godavari District) to Hyderabad on 3.3.2002. The helicopter was flown to
Bhimavaram on the previous day and positioned at D.N.R.College ground. Thereon. the
helicopter was flown to S.R.K.Engineering College Helipad at 0700 Hrs(iST) on 3.3.2002 for
the Hon’ble Lok Sabha Speaker. The helicopter took-off from helipad at 0735 Hrs (IST) with
total 3 persons on board including the Pilot, the Hon’ble speaker and his Personal Assistant.

The helicopter was being flown by Capt.G.V.Menon with effect from 28.2.2002. After
the last replacement of the engine at Varnasi on 28.02.2002, he had not reported any
abnormality or snag when he flew to Bhimavaram on the previous day prior to the accident
flight. The helicopter was re-fuelled at Bhimavaram from epicoated barrels transported by
truck from Hyderabad. The helicopter was having approximately 30 gallons of fuel and had
uplifted 45 gallons (total 75 gallons) for commencing the flight.

A pre-flight inspection schedule was found carried out and signed by the Capt. who

was authorized by Controller of Airworthiness, Bangalore . Capt.G.V.Menon occupied the

right-seat in the cockpit while the speaker occupied the left-seat. His personal assistant was

in the cabin at the rear.

Capt G V Menon Nad filed

a flight plan with FIC(Exhibit, No 15). Chennai on
tele
elephone. prior to departure from Bhimavaram FIC, Chennai had approved the flight plan

from Bhimavaram to Hyderabad through direct routing at 3000 feet AGL under Visual Flight
Rules (VFR) The helicopter took-off at about 0735 Hrs (IST) and headed for Hyderabad
The crash site is about 2-3 nautical miles away to the left of direct routing between
Bhimavaram and Hyderabad

Apparently, shortly after the take-off, the pilot encountered poor visibility and kept
deviating to the left due to weather. Even after deviation, he continued to encounter poor
visibility due to fog as reported by the eye-witness. Under VFR, the pilot is required to
maintain the visual ground contact. therefore the pilot continued to descend so that the
ground contact is not lost. In doing so, he got into a committed situation wherefrom he was
not in a position to go back. With the worsening visibility, he came so low such that further
flight was risky and he wanted to make a precautionary landing. After steadying the
helicopter, he realized, perhaps due to slight drifting of fog, that he is not on ground but on
water surface almost in the middie of Venkata Ramana Fish Pond. While intiating immediate
corrective action, he pulled up the helicopter without accurately judging his clearance from
water surface and in the process when the nose of the helicopter pulled up, the tail of the
helicopter hit the water bed causing breakage of tail-rotor blades and part of tail-boom.

With the tail-rotor already rotating at 1700 rpm approx of aircraft engine in full power

when the tail rotor contacted water surface caused disintegration of its tail-boom at about 3

feet from the tail rotor-side. Both the tail-rotor blades sheared off immediately after the

impact and were found floating inthe pond. The tail-rotor gear box along-with vertical fin had
sheared off and fallen in the pond at the place wnere the tail boom hit the water surface and
was lying underneath the water at that location.

After the helicopter tail section hit the water, the breakage of tail-boom caused the
loss of directional control. The pilot was unaware of the extent of damage to the helicopter

and with full power, he continued towards the Eastern side of the 9end. Since, the engine

yy

RR ess

‘

pi eeee

a

ty rte

we

was developing full power. the helicopter rose to 10 meters above the water surface and
crossed the pond flying through a row of coconut trees and while passing through ther. the

Tear portion of the helicopter hit the branches of a coconut tree at about 10 ft height (some

coconut leaves were found stuck between horizontal stablizer and tail boom)

Immediately after leaving the Venkata Ramana Fish Pond without directional control
the helicopter started spinning violently over the adjacent ponds. After making two-three
such violent spinning, it hit the eastern bank of the Mandala Anjaneyulu Fish tank. The
impact had been with the forward body of helicopter making contact with a strong muddy

bank of height 3 to 4 feet. Since, the helicopter was ii spin and had gained sufficient

forward momentum, the structure had collapsed and the occupants were killed due to the
impact.

The fuel tank with rubber cells burst immediately after the impact and all the fuel in the
tank leaked-out into the pond. The workers feeding the fish at Venkata Ramana Fish Pond
and other adjacent fish ponds had watched the whole mishap. After the helicopter crashed

on the bund, the workers rushed to the spot after pause of few minutes and tried to rescue
the occupants.

As they approached the wreckage, they found ail the three occupants were profusely
bleeding without any movement, the pilot in command was struggling for life. Other two
occupants had already died and after a while , the pilot also died before receiving any first
aid.

Shri Mani, owner of ‘Mandala Anjaneyulu Fish Pond who was at the spot stated
(Exhibit No. 4) that having identified the person sitting at the left pilot seat as the Hon’ble Lok
Sabha Speaker, he immediately informed the local police about the accident.

The local police immediately rushed to the spot and cordoned-off the area. With t:>
help of the local people, the bodies were removed and transported to Eluru Govt Hosp:

Alter the post-mortem of the deceased, bodies were handed over to the relatives/employ .

Yhe belo 5
ongings of bassengers were also harided

over te the relatives/amployers by the tocal
police

The helicop '
pter was brought to Bhimavaram on the previous day of the accident and

was provided
with sufficient security by the police during the period the helicopter was

positioned at Bhimavaram.

All the three persons on board died in the accident and there was no injury to any of

the ground personnel working in the fish pond.

1.2. INJURIES TO PERSONS

‘INJURIES | CREW «| PASSENGERS | OTHERS
, FATAL 1 2 a

SERIOUS NIL NIL “NL |
" MINORINONE NIL NIL NiL- 7

1.3 DAMAGE TO AIRCRAFT

The aircraft was completely damaged due to the impact with the muddy fish tank
bund. The extent of the damage can be seen from the photographs of the wreckage (Exhibit

No. 6). There was no fire.

1.4 OTHER DAMAGE

The helicopter crashed on the fish tank bund and the entire fuel carried in the
helicopter leaked into the fish tank. Fearing that the fish would die of fuel spillage, the owner
of the tank siphoned off the floating fuel and saved the fish. So, there was no other damage

due to the accident.

yY wyr7se Ww

4

»>« 4 ie)
ery

r

1.5 PERSONAL INFORMATION

Name Capt GV Menon(Lt Col Retd )
Date of Birth 3.14.1954
Age 47 years
Licence Type CHPL-464 issued on 10.6.1999 and valid
Upto 9.6.2003
FRTOL No.7600 valid upto 9.6.2003
Medical done on 23.10.2001, valid upto
22.4,2002.
Endorsement : Chetak and Bell 206B3 Helicopters
His flying hours experience till 28.2.2002 as forwarded by Deccan Aviation (Exhibit
No. 16) is as follows :
| DAY. y NIGHT ‘TOTAL :
\~puat 77 Pitot | Co-Pilot | Dual | Pilot | Co-Pilot ~~
HT-2 22.45 -- —- — — —- 22.45
TCHETAK | 41.25 206.20 ‘| 43.25 4.15 27.35 2.15 325.15
CHEETAH | 17025 | 1644.30 | 968.55 14.25 82.05 51.35 2931.55
BELL206B | 8.55 65205 [0.30 | 1.30 0.30 — 663.30
TOTAL 243.30 | 2502.55 | 1012.50 | 20.10 110.10 |53.50 |3943.25 .
1 | |

His total flying experience til! 28.2.2002 was 3943.25 Hours.

Experience during last 3 months : 148.20 Hours
Experience during last 30 days : 83.25 Hours
Experience during last 7 days : 15.30 Hours
Experience during last 24 Hours : 2.10 Hours

As per the records available, he was not involved in any accident earlier.

1.6 AIRCRAFT INFORMATION

164
The Be sheopte wyche:
Bell helicopter model 20GB 3 1s a single pilot, five place, single engine light
helic f
icopter with a two-blade semingid main rotor, and a tail rotor that provides directional
control

The airframe consists of a semimonocoque fuselage with metal and fiberglass

covering an aluminium-alloy monocoque tailboom that supports the vertical fin, fixed

horizontal stabilizer, tail rotor, and tail rotor drivetrain and aerodynamically shaped couplings

and fairings to protect all roof mounted components. The primary load-carrying structures

are two built in cabin bulkheads, a vertical control tunnel from the floor to the cabin roof and a

pair of longitudinal beams in the cabin roof
Landing gear is tubular skid type made of aluminium alloy.
Bell 206 helicopter VT-DAP was manufactured by Bell Textron, USA S|.No.4129 and

manufactured in October, 1991. It was initially issued with Indian Certificate of Airworthiness

No.2406 on 9.7.1999 which was valid till 8.7.2000 under normal category and sub-division

passenger. The C of A was subsequently renewed annually and it was valid till 8.7.2002.

The Aero-Mobile Licence A-348 was valid upto Dec'2002. The Certificate of Registration No

2997 was issued on 7.6.1999 and valid upto 31.5.2002. The validity of Lease was upto

31.5.2002. Non-Scheduled Operator Permit No.2/1997 was issued on 12.9.1997. The

maximum all-up_ weight authorized was 4451.50 kgs. The total hours done since

manufacturing was 1952 hours.

On 18.2.2002, the pilot reported engine chip light warning coming on during run-up at

Varnasi. On 49.2.2002, fine metal paste in both chip detectors fitted on engine accessory

gear-box was found and engine No. CAE 270511 declared unserviceable and replaced with

serviceable engine SI.No.CAE 835829 removed from Helicopter VT-DAN as per procedures

and a successful test-flignt was carried out. On 28.02.2002, associated air-frame

components required to be replaced were changed.

The
@ hours done by the aircraft as on date of aceident were as follows

Total flying hours since new

1952 12
Hours done at the time of C of A 1799 22
Hours done at last 100 Hr/3 months Insp. 1869 42
Hours done at last 50 Hr/1 month Insp. 1945:12
Hours done since last flight release certificate ; 8:55
Hours since last engine change 9.40

16.4

The hours done by the engine as on date of accident were as follows :

Hours since new 9493:41

Hours since last overhaul Not applicable
1.7. METROLOGICAL INFORMATION

174

The accident had occurred at about 0750 Hrs (IST). As per the information available
from Metrological Deptt., there was no reception of satellite cloud imageries and data at
metrological Office, Hyderabad on 3.3.2002 as the system was shut down from 282.2002
due to change over of satellite from INSAT 2C to INSAT 3C. They do not have any
metrological observations at Bhimavaram and Kovvadalanka to provide exact metrological
data. However, weather observations from 0100 UTC to 0300 UTC {(0630 to 0830 Hrs(!ST)}

of 3.3.002 recorded at Met Office, Gannavaram (Vijayawada Airport) are given below.

1. MET REPORT AT 0100 UTC VOBZ 030100z wind CALM visibility 5000 meters FEW

clouds 20000FT(6000M) Temperature 21°c Due point 20 QNH 1009 hpa (2980inches hg)
QFE 1007 hpa (2974 inches hg.)

2. SPECIAL WEATHER REPORT AT 0200 UTC VOBZ 030200z wind CALM Visibility
0200 meters Fog SKY OBSCURED Temperature 22°c Due point 21 QNH 1014 hpa (2985
inches hg) QFE 1008 hpa (2977 inches hg.)

a@e@7¢ <

t

re

VU

MET REPORT AT O3800 UTE
. _ , TO VORZ 0202007 wind CALM Visibuity 0209 meters F
SKY OBSCURED Temperature 24% Due point et iii OFF

PROQNH 1014 bpa (2985 linche ;
FOO Ha (2RO Inches ha) YNH 1014 bpa 62985 Iinches ha: OF F

| o
Ts informed by Met Office that no requisition was received euther from Deccan

a ate
AWaban or trom the pilot concerned regarding Met brefing for the fiabt far

Bhoravarany te
Hyderabad an 3.3 200? and accordingly no briefing was provided by this office for the sar

flroht

However, according to eye-witness visibility near the crash site was about 75-109

meters approx

1.8 AIDS TO NAVIGATION

Direct reading Compass. Automatic direction Finder. Global Positioning System
1.9 COMMUNICATIONS
VHF (Very High Frequency) set —2 off

1.10 AERODROME INFORMATION

1.40.1

The helicopter being operated from uncontrolied helipad at Bhimavaram, West

Godavari District (located at Lat N16° 32’ Long E 81° 32’), i.e. not applicable.

4.41__ FLIGHT RECORDERS

J.0U) Pha eS

NOT FITTED ON THIS HELICOPTER

4.12 WRECKAGE AND IMPACT INFORAMTION

On examination of the wreckage, it was observed that main rotor-blades were broken.
cockpit and cabin of the helicopter collapsed, top of the cabin fractured, hydraulic servos
were found intact in its position, tail-boom attached, engine and its transmission syste:

found without any damage Subsequent to recovery of tail rotor gear-box, tall rotor blades, fir

ae patt of tail-boom from the bott : of water pond(place of fist inpach to

Fy wu ve

?

J’ Be G& BW

wreckage was available for exammation / investigation and pholography (Exhibit No 6)

Presently, wreckage ts held under the safe custody of Controller of Airworthiness Bangalore
NOTES :

Cockpit Instrument Reading - As shown in the photograph of instrument panel (Exhibit No
6) :

Cockpit controls, levers and Switch settings - Cyclic stick hand grip found broken, throttle

fully open and jammed, battery switch in “OFF” position. fuel valve switch in “ON" position.
collective stick fully down

identification of relevant instruments -- Exhibit No.6
ELT Antenna co-axial cable found snapped due to impact

Radio frequencies selected :-- Both radio VHF sets were found in “ON” position. Being
digital display, frequencies were not readable.

Trim tab control settings :- Almost all the control tubes found fractured due to impact.

Significant damage in or to cockpit area:- Cockpit completely smashed due to Impact
(Photographs Exhibit No.6).

Documents located in cockpit area and on site, secure documents.- DGCA approved
technical logbook aiong-with the copies of the documents required to be carried on board as
per Civil Aviation Requiremnts(CAR) found and retrieved.

Pilot Log Book :- The log book could not be traced.
Any other significant items:- Nil
Damage to control runs:- Control rods through vertical channel found broken, pitch change

links found broken, servo controls apparently normal, main rotor blades broken but still

attached by the trailing edge strip, main rotor hub and swash plate intact (Photograpins
Exhibit No.6).

Relationship between control settings and trim tab positions:- Not applicable.

Fue! cock, cross-feed, booster pump and priming pump setting or position:- Throttle funy

open, fuel valve switch in "ON" position, booster-pump, circuit breakers selected to "(-:
position

Helicopter crashed with full forward momentum ie., with forward and gravitati.

forces acting on it on the Eastern bund of Mandala Anjaneyulu Fish Pond and ...3

lined. Wine Sint nd

cd

“pow & 4, %. ?

~

arm

completely damaged The fuselage had separated from the undercarnage by shearing of the

mounting assembly

113. MEDICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL INFORMATION

Immediately after the accident, the workers at the fish pond rushed to the site and
tried to rescue the passengers. They had found the passenger sitting on the left-seat of the
cockpit and in the cabin dead. The pilot of helicopter was struggling for life with severe
injuries and within in no time, he also died without receiving any medical/first-aid. Local
Police were informed immediately with the help of cell phone by Shri Mani , owner of
Anjaneyulu Fish Tank. The local police arrived at the site after about half-an-hour of
information and removed the bodies from the helicopter. The bodies were later sent for post-

mortem to Eluru Government Hospital. The post-mortem report (Exhibit No.17) of pilot does

not indicate any incapacitation and / or presence of alcohol.

1.14 FIRE

There was no fire in the accident

1.15 SURVIVAL ASPECTS

The accident was not survivable. The helicopter collided with fish tank bund with high

forward momentum. The impact was so severe that the occupants received fatal injuries.

1.16 TESTS AND RESEARCH
4.16.1 — PROBABLE EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

The helicopter flight manual describes the following conditions under which the pilot

has to land as soon as possible (as per Chapter No.3) :-

a) Engine oi! pressure low, high or fluctuating
b) fllumination of engine chip light

c) Engine failure

d) Ilurnination of tail-rotor chip light

e) Tail-rotor contro! failure

f) Illumination of transmission chip fight

a) Transmission ot temperat
hy Transmssion oil pressture
\ Mam-drive shatt
\) Battery hot

areas high
tow
allure

141641

For conditions listed under a, b. and . the engine was tested for full performance at
manufacturers facility and certified to have been working satisfactorily at the time of accident
The parameters recorded during the test run were normal and to the required specification
The engine test run was witnessed by the Member of Committee Shri Yashpal, Senior
Manager(Engg.), Pawan Hans Helicopters Limited at Indianapolis, USA. A report (Exhibit

No.5) was submitted by the Original Equipment Manufacturer Rolls Royce, USA. From the
eye-witnesses statements and the evidences collected from the accident site, it has
undoubtedly being corroborated that the engine was developing sufficient power and the
helicopter could climb over 10 meters from the ground level

From the above, it is proved

that the engine was not the contributory factor for the accident.

For conditions listed under (d) and (e), tail rotor failure could have resulted due joss of
pitch control, failure of the drive shaft, gear ceasure, missing rotor blades or combination of
the above conditions. None of the above conditions were prevailing as the helicopter was
seen approaching straight on a steady flight for landing at the middle of the fish pond. All
parts of the tail rotor such as rotors, gear box & its attachment, pitch control mechanism were
found lying under the water at one location, except the tail rotor blades which were floating
around. \t amounts that there was no failure of any of the components of trail rotor system
prior to the accident. Also, the analysis carried out by National Aerospace Laboratory
reported (Exhibit NO.18) that the breaking of tail boom, tail drive shaft, tail rotor control shaft

and tail rotor blades were due to impact load.
For conditions (f), (g) and (h), i.e. transmission chip light “ON”: The investigation team
had inspected the chip detectors of the system and found no metal particles. Further the gear

box was strip inspected at the Deccan Aviation hangar , in the presence of members of the

1s

committee on 29.7 Op al B

andalore amc it i Si ; ,
iS _ Wy ‘ eto the inte )
Y wars nia s ghoobs woda laqe tf Ven r

pa is ¢ SIGNS ¢ gear bo { { IAC { ty
YOK opera WW withar \c Qu ¥ ail

and therefore ce
under (gl & (hy were _

Not prevalent before the accident

For ¢
Condition (i), ie Main dive shart

alure Investiqated by Natiorval Anrospace:
Laboratory Ba gal and te
: ore e
dt vealed that there was no failure of main drive shaft during flight

(Exhibit No. 23),

For i
Condition (), i.e, Battery hot’ The battery condition was checked in the Deccan
Aviati

ton battery shop and found not heating up during rapid charging and discharging and

was i
found satisfactory, battery temperature sensors were found satisfactory and is not a

contributory factor for making a precautionary landing

1.16.2 -EXAMINATION OF TAIL-ROTOR UNIT, BOOM & STRUCTURUE

The detached tail-rotor unit consisting of the vertical fin, boom structure, tail-rotor gear
box and the broken rotor blades were tested at National Aerospace Laboratory, Bangalore
and the report submitted by National Aerospace Laboratory (Exhibit No. 418) revealed that the
failure was due to the impact of the tail boom with the water surface. After examining the
report, the tail gear box was strip opened in the presence of the members of the committee

and found to contain mud mixed with oil. Subsequent to cleaning of mud, the Tail Gear Box

was found rotating freely .

4.16.3 FUEL FILTER CONTAMINATION TEST

FUEL FILTER CONTANINA

The engine fuel filter was removed and sent to M/s Rolls Royce, Indianapolis, USA for
detailed examination of any debris accumulated in the fitter to ascertain the probable internal
failure of the engine. The Rolls Royce report( Exhibit No.5) indicated that there was no

metallic material or debris in the filter.

Se 2 ee 2 i 7 ee

roe @,

1164 EUEL CONTAMINATION TESY
Asmall QuaAMIty of

IGM) was drawn from the |

fo DACA New Delhi |

S could be cane

OW Pressure filter of the
submitted

Heheapter ane
aboratory for tests As th

© auantity was so small and ney
lest 1

“out twas decided to nux this smai'
and carryout complete range of t

The repor (Exhibit No 22)

quantity of fuel with a knean
quality sample

ests for any deterioration In the quality

did not indicate any Contamination of fuel

11° ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
Capt. Gopinath is the Managing Director of Deccan Aviation Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore and
Capt Samuel is the Executive Director. Capt. Samuel is responsible for operation of aircrafts
The company has maintenance base at Bangalore and headed by the Q.C.M.(approved py
Director of Airworthiness).

1.18 PROFILE OF MANAGEMENT

SEE MAN AVEMENT

Both the promoters of the company, Capt.G.R.Gopinath and Capt. K.J.Samuel are ex-
servicemen. The Chairman of the company is Lt.Gen.N.S.Narahari, PVSM(Retd.)
Capt. Samuel who retired as a Lt.Col.from the Army Aviation is a helicopter pilot. He is the
Executive Director. Capt. Gopinath who is an established businessman is the Managing

Director.

1.19 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

NIL
4.20 USEFUL OR EFFECTIVE INVESTIGATION TECHNIQUES
NIL

PART C

ANALYSIS

ta

‘a

N

oe

COL +e ve

&

ewve«

‘

@euwvse

a

<

¢ewse

1 it gs
ow wat Se web

2. ANALYsis

Airworthiness Aspects

The helicopter was issued with Certificate of Airworthiness (C of A) No.2406 on
9.7.1999. The certifi

Cate was renewed continuously with validity upte 8.7.2002. The

)

associated airframe components required to be replaced,
Shri Vidya Babu AME # 5485 and approval No. 52/01 stated

(Exhibit No, 19) that the
engine replacement was Carried out by an appropriately ticenc

ed aircraft Maintena\-o
€ngineer with the help of experienced technicians.

Ban

C
7

‘) 8 i &

ay

yu é

~~

¢

o

¢

‘y

e

4

The re ;
Placement of engine was carried out as per the approved engine change

schedule
and run-up was carried oul after the installation The engine run-up was

satisfac
actory and the helicopter was subjected to test flight for 30 minutes and found
Satisfactory. After that helicopter flew from Varnasi to Bhimavaram on 7° and 2™ March

2002 for 8 Hours and 55 minutes without any snag on the engine.

The helicopter was operating at various airports and away from main airports
Refuelling of helicopter at locations away from main airports was carried out by a mobile
refuelling team drawing fuel fram epicoated barrels owned by the company. The refuelling
was carried out by experienced technicians under the supervision of pilots. The refuelling
equipment and barreis etc. were inspected by the Committee and found meeting the
requirements. The fuel sample taken from the barrels were sent to DGCA Laboratory, New
Delhi and tested for full specification and the report (Exhibit No.20 ) revealed that fuel was
found satisfactory. es

The helicopter was parked at Bhimavaram throughout the night and was flown to SRK
Engineering College half-an-hour prior to the departure. The Dy. Supdt. Of Police
(Narsapur) stated (Exhibit No.14) that at both the places, the helicopter was guarded by

security personnel deployed by local police authorities.

aT
—

we

The helicopter was flown by Capt.G.V.Menon continuously for three days after engine
change and he had not reported any snag on the helicopter or its systems. He had carried
out pre-flight inspection before departure on 3.3.2002. Since the preflight inspection was

satisfactory, he decided to take-off.

As per the eye-witness and the evidences collected from the accident site indicate that

the helicopter had climbed-up about 10 meters from the ground level and was able to fly-

=

away from the pond. This indicates that the engine was developing sufficient power in

combination with the lift generating system to confirm that the system was serviceable.

a

aie

Peete See

@

> 8

vege ee ®

22 WEATHER

T
he hehcopter took. Off from uncontrolled helipad and | metrological bnefing was not
obt
aed by the pilot. The weather reported by the eye-witnesses at the site of the accident
indicated very, poor sibility due to fog

However, detailed met report obtained from
Gannavaram(Vijayawada) i is given above at para 1.7.1
2.3 SABOTAGE ASPECTS

The Deputy Suptd. Of Police Narsapur reported (Exhibit No 14)

that helicopter was

parked in Bhimavaram under the custody of police security personnel deployed by the district
authorities,

Also the fuel retrieved from the engine fuel filter passed all the relevant tests
A firm conclusion is therefore drawn that sabotage was not cause of accident. The report

from CID { Andhra Pradesh} (Exhibit No.21) has also confirmed that

~~

there was no possibility
of sabotage. 7 —_
2.4 FLIGHT RECORDERS
Not installed.
25 CIR

CUMSTANCES LEADING TO UNCONTROLLABLE SPIN OF HELICOPTER
ERE AEE LEADING TO UNCONTROLLABLE SPIN OF HELICOPTER

2.5.1

As stated in the report above that weather over Bhimavaram and its adjoining areas
was not conducive to VFR flying due to poor visibility and perhaps got worsened over
Kowvadalanka. The pilot decided not to continue the flight and tried to locate a suitable place
for fanding. Making an unplanned landing was considered more appropriate than continuing
the flight due to poor visibility and also keeping in view the VVIP on board

He was perhaps in search of proper location and finally decided to land at a place
which happened to be a fish pond. After having decided to land, he continued to descend

and was making landing approach As he came very close to the ground, he realized that

POO RICI 4 5 ty Meat
a COR Ta. Se kl \

s

“Ye CevVI ee

ee wise bt Bev

~s

ne fish pond with full of greenish water
Realizing his

. -away from the pond, In that process
while Pulling-up, the tail-boom hit the water surface hea

vily and with the tail-rotors rotating at
about 1700 FPM resulted in shearing off of the tail-boom

gear-box and vertical fin detached, the
helicopter Virtually lost its

ability of directional control and s
. _——,. - Sena ee
to main-rotor torque.

tarted spinning on its own counter

Perhaps, he was puzzled with the behaviour of the helicopter on toss of directional
control and not knowing what to do next, he flew to the adjacent pond. While crossing the

eastern bank, the helicopter hit a coconut tree and made two to three spins before it came

down and hit the Anjaneyulu fish tank bund with forward momentum.

2.6 PILOT FACTOR

SSE I

2.6.1
Capt.G.V.Menon held a valid CHPL ticence No.464 and the licence was endorsed

with the requisite ratings. He had logged 3952:10 hours of flying out of which 672:15 hrs on

Bell 206 helicopter. He had flown extensively all over Andhra Pradesh and he was very

familiar in flying in that area. He was not due for his medical examination when he was flying

On that day. The post-mortem report (Exhibit No.17) also revealed that he was not under the

influence of alcohol.

2.6.2

Prior to departure to Hyderabad, he had carried a pre-flight inspection at Bhimavaram

and ensured sufficient fuelling of the helicopter. After ensuring Proper functioning of the

engine and systems, he decided to take off from Bhimavaram to proceed to Hyderabad
Prior to departure, he also contacted Air Traffic Control, Chennai on telephone and obtained

flight clearance along-with FIC/ADC numbers


‘gt! oF Wl
{

wd 4 4

saree ee

ta

yoaur

fa

aoe

vue

(

a]

He Continued the flight

and flew on Neading towards Hyderabad for about 15 minutes
{0 @ distance of

approximately 20 Nautical mites

When he reached a place called
Kowvadalanka, bec,

ause of thick fag Surrounding him. he descended to a height considered
Safe by him He was in search of appropriate place to land As an error of Judgement, he
Mistook the green coloured water pond as land surface

—.

Apparantly he realized this too late
that he was on water surface and not on appropriate lan

d His abrupt effort to hurriedly lift
the helicopter Caused the tail boom to hit the water The

tail boom broke and helicopter went
iNto uncontrolled spin leading to the acc:dent

Perhaps, he could have avoided taking that decision of landing and instead he could

have climbed to sufficient height and continued his flight to Hyderabad which is not permitted

oe

@S per VFR rules(Ground contact to be maintained throughout the flight) .

PART D

CONCLUSION

\
4
PART D
~ oo
»
>
S CONCLUSIONS
 }
> 34- FINDINGS
Q 34.4 The helicopter had a valid Certificate of Airworthiness
ay 3.1.2. The all-up weight and C.G. of helicopter were within limits.
Ny 3.1.3 The helicopter had sufficient fuel to complete the flight
> 3.1.4, The helicopter was serviceable and no snag/defect awaiting for rectification.
>
. 3.1.5. No characteristic Signs of sabotage observed and was not considered as a factor
9 in the accident.
> 3.1.6. The visibility at the Kovvadalanka and other adjoining areas was poor due fog as per
> } eye-witnesses. Sa
’ 3.1.7. The accident took Place after about 15 minutes of flying in a foggy weather condition
‘ > {poor visibility) while executing unplanned landing
: ; ee .
 ] 3.1.8 Apparently the pitot had misjudged the water surface as plain ground free from
9 Obstructions / trees. oe
% 3.1.9. Since the flight was conducted out of ATC zone, the ATC was not considered a
factor in the accident.
>
"ay . .
3.2.0. No evidence has come to notice to indicate that the helicopter had suffered any
“ty Foreign Object Damage during take-off and in-flight,
“4
.- > 3.2.1. There was no evidence of fire in flight.
>
i

' 3.2.2. There was no in- flight failure of any components of the helicopter.

3.2.3,

The engine and associated systems were working satisfactorily at the time of impact.
3.2.4. The investigation on the en

gine by Original Equipment Manufacturer revealed proper
functioning of the engine.

NS
3.2.5.

The investigation of fuel filter b

y Original Equipment Manufacturer revealed no
abnormality. ne
3.2.6.

The main-rotor and other systems were functioning normally

3.2.7 There was no evidence to indicate failure of any component during flight

af,

woe

@

?
\
* 8 The flight o ew held appropuate heence to undertake the flight
~ aaa)
“eS The pilot had MAranally exceeded the | DTL as per approved Operations Mansal sof
Decean Axiation) by DOCA ~
220 The ail Coole! replaced at Varanas) was not entered in appropriate air frame lng ook
However, this lapse has been procedural and had no effect on the safety of the
helicopter
® —
a
ne
r
4 CAUSE OF ACCIDENT :
SAMSE UP ACCIDENT ;
~“ The accident was Caused when the pilot unable to Continue the flight due poor visibility
«”

while searching for an appropriate place to land, made an error of judgment by mistaking
-_ Pond water as land surface.

tne

—

After realizing so when he attempted to lift the helicopter from a low height

the tai!
4 boom contacted water surface and got Separated causing the helicopter to spin and crasr
YY land
’ ~
|
i i)
—_
-
Baw
a)
a a
~
"3 ~

SB wEEE
‘

PART E

RECOMMENDATION

Ee
1 dp eg Gere
yee’ ~

epesewerr:

a
L oy aaedve rs

é v.,

w=

Os

PARTE

RECOMMENDATIONS:

a) The pilots Operating flight to and from remote places from uncontrolled airspace
helipads and air strips should obtain en-route weather report/information from
the appropriate authorities, observe caution about local weather phenomenon
and conduct flight accordingly

b) The pilots should undergo periodic refresher training with specific emphasis on

rn
the identification and action to all kinds of emergency conditions including
weather, terrain and aircraft

c) The DGCA should evolve the requirement and contents of refresher training. A
Separate study by a committee be carried out to examine the present existing
policy vis-a-vis ICAO regulation and refresher training and recommend remedia
measures to incorporate better retiring method ie. , Syllabus and periodicity
agency/training institution to be so identified and certified. The committee should
also recommend the cost factor and its implications on the operating cost

(Lt. General A.Nataraja SM,VSM)
Chairman
Committee of Inquiry
We agree
Member

Committee of Inquiry

Place . New Delhi

Dated \G September , 2002

(Bir Singh Rai)
Member Secretary
Committee of inquiry

