FINAL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
ACCIDENT TO M/s PRABHATAM
AVIATION PVT. LTD. ALQUETTE III
~ CHETAK HELICOPTER VT-EGK AT SHRI
| KEDARNATHJLON 22" MAY, 2007

INDEX

CONTENTS PAGE NO.

SUMMARY |

FACTUAL INFORMATION a

1 HUSPORY OL TP EE TOHT >
2 INJORIBS TO PERSONS ' +
La DAMAGE LO AIRCRAE | 4
aA OTHER DAMAGL 4
1S PERSONNED INFORALA TION 4
ob AIRCRET INFORALA LION 6
7 METEOROLOGICAL INFORSEN LION .
8 AIDS TONAVIGALION S
9 COMMUNICA TION S
WW ARRODROME INFORMATION s
Ell PLIGHT RECORDERS u
12 WRECKAGE AND EMPAGCT INT ORAIN ION “
18) MEDICAL AND PATIIOLOCGIOAL INE ORMA TION u
1.144 FIRE SS)
18 SURVIVAL ASPECTS uy
IO TESIS AND RESEARCH 0
AZ ORGANIZATIONAL & MANAGE MEN DE INFORMA LION lo
18 ADDITIONAL. INFORMA LION in|
9) USEFUL OR EFFECTIVE INVES TIGA TLON i

TECHNIQUES

2. ANALYSIS I
21 HELICOPTER i
22 WEATHER H
2.3 PILOT FAC LOR '
24 STANDARD OPERATING PROCTL DURES is
2S ORGANIS LATION & APANAGE MENT 1s
aa) CIRCLE MSPANCT SEE ADPSt TO THE ACCTDEN |

3. CONCLUSIONS

| FINDINGS Ia
2 CAUSE OF THE ACCTDEN | In

40 SABRETY RICOMALENDIA TIONS Tes

REPORT ON ACCIDENT FO M/S PRABHATAM AVIATION PVT.
LTD. ALOUETTE HI CHETAK HELICOPTER VI-EGK AT SHRI

KEDARNATHJLON 22 TH MAY, 2007

General Information:

a. Aircratt

b. Owner

c. Operator or Hirer

d, Pilot in Command
Extent of Injuries

e. Ground crew
Extent of Injuries

e. No. of Passengers
Extent of Injuries

ft. Location of Accident

g. Date & Time of Accident

Type Chetak Helicopter
Model SA 316 B Alouette I]
Nationality Indian,

Registration VT-EGK

Prabhatam Aviation Pvt. Ltd., Delhi
-do-

CHPL No. 620

Nil

Trattic Eland

Fatal

Six

Nil

Shri Kedarnathji Helipad,

Latitude : 30°45°N
Longitude > 79° 04°71
Elevation =: TTSOO tect AMST

22.05.07, 0400 UTC Approx.

(Ali Gimings in the report are in UTC)

Summary:

On 22.5.2007, SA 316B Alouette HT Chetak Helicopter VoE-Uf ik
belonging to M/s Prabhatam Aviation Pvt. Ltd. Delhi was engazed tn non
scheduled operation from Phata to Shri Kedarnathaji and took off trom Phata
helipad at around 0350 UTC with seven persons on board including the pilot.
After making normal approach for landing the helicopter landed en right and
side of Shri Kedarnathji Eastern helipad on unpaved area. One of the ground
staff approached towards the front right side of the helicopler without waiting

J

for the signal from the pilot for assisting the passengers in disembarking. In the
process he was hit by one of the main rotor blades which were rotating at full
RPM and succumbed to his injuries. The accident took place in daylight
conditions. The Weather was bright & sunny with about | to 2 knots of
tailwind,

\. FACTUAL INFORMATION:

ld

History of the flight: :

On 22.45.2007 SA 316B Alouette Chetak Helicopter VT-EGK
belonging to M/s Prabhatam Aviation Pvt. Ltd., Delhi was engaged in
non-scheduled operation flight from Phata to Shri Kedarnathaji under the
command of pilot holding CHPL No. 620. There were six passenger on
board.

Earlier on same day helicopter had operated five sectors (Pata
Shri Kedarnathaji -- Phata) with the same flight crew. AIL these sectors
were uneventful and pilot has not reported any abnormality about the
helicopter controls.

After refueling 180 liters of Jet A-1/Aviation Turbine Fuel at
Phata, helicopter took off from Phata helipad at around 0380 UTC) The
take off and the Night till touchdown was normal. As per pilot stitement
the weather was bright & sunny with about | to 2 knots of tailwind. ibe
helicopter made normal approach on right side of touchdown and Hit off
area (TLOF) on un paved surface which is a Kutcha hard grassy surface.
of Shri Kedarnathji Eastern heliped with nose facing in North direction.
The helipad has however got paved surface marked “HT.

As per pilot statement when helicopter came to hover over the
helipad where the landings were made usually, the marshaller sigiedica
the pilot to commence a sit-down, After danding, when the main blades
were rotating at full RPM with passengers on beard. one of the gr und
staff approached towards the front right side of the helicopter and during
this process the main rotor blade hit him and he succumbed to his
injuries. Ground staff had not lowered his body or head, as were the
instructions given while approaching the helicopter. The weather was
fine at the time of accident. Tip of the main roter red blade was found
damaged. After the accident loc | sople became violent and injured the

1.3

pilot and other staff and caused more damages to the helicopter. The tinal
position of the helicopter’s Nose landing gear tyre was found in the 3
inch deep soil pit.

Pilot has mentioned in his statement that as per the procedure,
after touchdown, the collective is fully lowered and then the controls
are neutralized. This is a very gradual process done very smoothly.
Before the controls are neutralized the main rotor dise could be
tilted in any direction depending upon number of factors. I could
have been on any side. It may have even been in the forward position
also.

Once the controls are neutralised then pilot could have been
comfortable he would have signalled the ground crew to approach.
Unfortunalety ground crew approached without waiting for steal
from him to approach the helicopter.

Accident took place during day Ume at 0400 UPC & weather at
that time was fine. There was no injury to any person or hoard tb
helicopter. However, the ground crew received fatal injury dae hie il
main rotor blade. Helicopter received minor damage to the neu iat

(Red) blade tip.

‘The flight plan was submitted’ booked on phone every day. bh
FIC & ADC Nos. of the day of accident were OOLL & Y48 respectis els.

Injuries to persons:

I Injuries 7 Crew Passengers _ ; Others
|
* Minor’ None | 1 “6 a i

* Ground crew
Damage to aircraft:

Following damages were observed
- Tip of the Main Rotor blade found substatially damaged and the
attachement screws of the tip to the blade were intact.

- ‘The upper side of the skin behind spar and near blade tip rib found
bulged and cracked in the area around nine square inches.

14 Other Damage:

Nil

LS Personnnel information:

After the accident, as per the operator. focal people became \ iolent and
injured the pilot & other staff. Helicopter was also further damaged. Operator
has also informed that their office at Phata and Shrit Kedarnath Howere
ransacked by infuriated mob, resulting in loss of documents like Pilot Personal
Log Book, Reservation register, Boarding Pass, Visitors Book ete. Operator has
todged a complaint to Police Station Ukhimath Distt. Rudraprayag (Uitrakhand.

Operator has therefore not submitted the pilot personnel logbook for
investigation. Operator was asked to provide the information including the
training data in the absence of the records. Following information is as supplied
by the operator.

The helicopter was operated by single pilot at the time of aecident
Concerned pilot served the IAF for LT years. He joined Prabhatam Aviation
Pvt. Ltd. in Feb. 2004 and has about 3 years of flying experience in civil
aviation. The flying hours given below are an approximation, which ts sup icd
by operator as operator has informed that the personal flying logbook of pitot
has been lost in the post accident violence at the site by the local people.
Relevant details of the pilot are as below:-

1.5.1. Pilot- in- Command
The pilot holding : CHIPL
Date of Birth : 29" March, 1971
Age : 36 years | month
Details of license
Commercial Pilot's License No.: 620
(Helicopter)
Issued on : 16” January, 2004
Valid upto : 15.01.2009

FRTO licence No. : 8876

4

Issued on : 15" October, 2003
Valid upto : 14.10.2008

RTR License No. : 304-2003

Issued on : 17" September, 2003
Last Med. Exam. : 13.07.2000
Helicopter endorsed : Chetak

‘Total Flying experience : 2250 hrs.

Total flying experience as PIC: 1450 hrs.

Total flying experience on : 2000 hrs.
Chetak/Cheetah helicopter

‘Total hill flying experience : 2000 hrs.

as PIC

‘Total hill fying experience : 700 hes.

On Chetak/Cheetah helicopter

During last 90 days : 116:35 hrs.
During last 30 days : 81:50 hrs.
During last 7 day's : 24:20 hrs.
During last 24 hours : O1:40hrs.

There was no skill test carried out or any assessment of high altitude landing
and take offs was made for the invelved pilot. Proficiency checks records were

Jost in post accident violence.

1.5.2 Ground Crew:

As per pilot statement, the involved ground staff had been working tor
the past two years with Prabhatam Aviation Pvt. Ltd. The ground crew

age was about 22 years & height was 5 feet 6 inches approx.

As per SOP the ground crew should take following precautions

at Shri Kedarnathji helipad:

1.6

1.6.1

1.6.2

e Upon landing after receiving the pilot’s signal the ground ores
will come and disembark the passengers with rotors ¢urnime.

As the embarking and disembarking of the passengers 1 toby
place with the rotors turning the ground crew is to take speci
precautions while escorting the passengers to & fro from the
helicopter.

Aircraft information:

Alouette HI SA 316 B helicopter bearing SI. No. AL-240 bras a thtee
bladed lifting rotor and an anti-torque tail rotor. It is powered Ps
Turbomeca “Artouste HI B° turbine engine and is capable of cuit) iy STs
passengers plus one pilot. [twas manufactured by M's Hindustan
Aeronautics Ltd., Helicopter Disision, Bangalore in the year jo79o Whe
helicopter is fitted with a trieyele landing gear consisting of a mata gout
unit and a nose gear unit provided with a centering cam, which acts for
angles up lo 4/-45° relative to the centre line of the helicopter. Vhe
maximums height of helicopter to lop of main rotor lifting eye, al empl
weight is 3.090 m ( 10 feet 1.6 inch).

The helicopter is repistered in India and was issued with
Certificate of Registration No. 2185-3 in Cat. “AX on 20.4). 2006 with
owner and operator as Mes Prabhatam Aviation Pvt. Lid. Certificate of
Airworthiness No. 1717 was issued in NORMAL Category having
subdivision “PASSENGER. The last revalidation of C of A was done on
16.03.07 & the certificate was valid till 15.03.2008. Aero-mobile license
no. A-429 was valid til] 31.12.2007,

Mis Shaurya Aeronautics pvt. Ltd., Delhi ts presently maintaining
the helicopter. The certificate of release to service in respect of the
helicopter and engine was last issued on 21.03.07, after carrying oul
2ShrsilSdays inspection maintenance schedule on the helicopter.

As per last approved weight schedule, empty weight of the
helicopter is 1290 Kgs. and its authorized Max. all up weight is 2200
Kgs.

Operator carried out L00hrs' 180 day's inspection on 24.04.2007, Prior to
the accident fight helicopter flew with same pilot on five scetors (Phate

1.6.3

— Shri Kedarnathaji — Phata) on the day of agcident ( Total tying ees
01-40 hrs.) and the pilot reported no snag.

Flying details of the aircraft and ifs engine are documented in ditivrent
log books and the brief is as below:

AIRFRAME IlOURS:

1.6.4

1.6.5

1.6.6

1.6.7

1.7

I Total Hours since new $165:45

Ul Hours since last C of A renew al 115:05

If Hours since last LOGhrs/180 days 81.40
Inspection.

IV Hours since last 25 hrs./ LS days) 06:40

ENGINE HOURS:

l Engine type ARTOUSTE HIB
i Engine Serial No. HiSS117

Ml Hours singe new 3391250

IV Hours since last 530:20

Complete overhaul

There was no snag reported after the last inspection performed on the
helicopter.

The helicopter was refueled 180 liters of Jet A-HAviation Turbine fuel at
Phata.

At the time of take off from Phata helipad the helicopter had all up wt. ol
1965:400 kps. against authorized maximum take off wt. of 2200 kgs. as
per weight schedule and during landing at Shri Kedarnathji the helicopter
all up weight was 1942 Kes. The mass and centre of gravity was within
the prescribed limits during takeoff and landing.

Meteorological information:

As per operator SOP all tlving has to: be done in day VER
conditions only. Due to the absence of Met station in thy est. thy
specific local conditions and short duration of the fight the follow ine
procedure was being adopted:

° PIC will check the weather betore start ofa fight.

1.8

1.9

1.10

° From Phata helipad look in the direction of Sh. Kedarnathji Shu ine.
ascertain prevailing weather conditions like visibility, clouds ele.

. {If weather conditions are within minima for VER Hsin to
flying will be under taken.

. If required weather al Kedarnathji Shrine shall be ascertained bs
telephone.

. If the weather al any stage is found to be unsuitable for contin’ dle
flight the pilot will promptly return to Phata after giving a RT call.

. General weather can be obtained from either Delhi Met'Deharadun
ATCs.

As per the pilot statement the weather was bright & sunny with
about | to 2 knots of tailwind at the time of accident.

Aids to navigation:

The flight was conducted under VER rules. PHHL also operates in the
same area, and therefore an SOP was made for flying in the valley to be
followed by both the operators. As per company SOP, PAPL helicopter
will give calf prior to take off and Janding. PAPL helicopter will fly to
the right side of valley and vive all the mandatory RT calls. The route to
be followed will be Phata-Rampur-Gaurikund-Garud Chatti-Kedarnath.
Descend on the way back will again be similar by maintaining right side
of the valley and following the reciprocal of the above mentioned route.
In addition PAPL helicopter will give position report RT call at
following places: Rampur, Gaurikund & Garud Chatu.

Communications:

The helicopter was fitted with VHE COMM Transceiver equipments tor
two- way RT communication, As per company SOP. frequency 122.7
Mliz used in the hills. All mandatory RYT calls like take off landing.
finals will be given. R/V call will alse specify the destination that the
helicopter is proceeding to.

Helipad information:
Kedarnath ji right Pastern Helipad is a State Government helipad. tr

owned by Government of | iaranchal. Elevation of helipad is 11500 few,
Co-ordinates are Latitude 30°45 N. Longitude 79°04 and

1

1.12

1.13

114

1.15

1.16

dimensions are 30MA30M. Recently on 02/05/2007 helipad jer it
inspection Was carried by the DGCA. The surface of the site 1s hard
grassy & plain and approx area of loft X Fett the aiming point of the
helipads is made with cement & stones apparently which can withstand
the load & downwash of the proposed helicopter. Inspection team have
made some deficiencies out of then one deficiency was that “Lh marked
grea is not very smooth and seme work will be required to smoothen the
surface by District Administration. The action taken report forwarded io
DGCA has not mentioned the action on said deficiency and same
deficiency was still persisting al the time of accident. ‘

As per pilot statement which was corroborated by ground staff he
used to land the helicopter at the same place Le. on unpaved surlace
(Kutcha ie. hard grassy surface) as it landed on 22.05.2007.

Flight Recorders:
Helicopter was neither required nor fitted with any of the recorders.

Wreckage and impact information:

The accident occurred when the helicopter had touched down for landing
and the rotors were rotating.

Medical & pathological information:

The ground staff was hit by the main rotor-rotating bkade and he
succumbed to injuries. No injury received to any of the occupants
including pilot onboard the helicopter during the accident

Fire:

There was no fire at any stage of the accident.

Survival Aspects:

One of the ground staff had received fatal head injury by rolaling mae

rotor blade. after the heligopter has touched down, The accident war ner
survivable.

Tests & Research:

‘The sample of fuel was drawn from the helicopter and sent to R&D Lah
of DGCA and sample was found inceting the requirements.

1.17 Organizational & Management Information:

o The company operations manual issue No.b dated 30/04/2005 was
not as per the latest Format and requirements. The company
operations manual states that helicopter to be used for carrying
passengers and offshore operations. Howevey. hill operations are
not mentioned in the company operations manual.

o CAR Section 7 Series B Part XIV requires that - The operator shall
be responsible for training of the pilots of his company. Records of
all training. checks and test carried out by each pilot shall be
maintained, updated and retained for a period of at least 3 years.

o The Operator could not depute the involved Marshaller for
investigation and informed that he has left the company/not
reported for duty after the accident.

o DGCA has approved the Standard Operating Procedures (! Py ter
Phata-Kedamath-Phata on 19/05/2006, The subject SOP ha
mentioned following regarding, Kedarnathji Helipad: -

“PCPL ie. new name PAPL will be using the upper left (Wester)
helipad. When any other helicopter is using or likely to use th
upper left (Western) helipad then PAPL helicopter will we th
lower right (Eastern) helipad.”

However. copy of the SOP provided by operator indicates the
PAPL will be using the Southern helipad and when any othes
helicopter is using or likely to use the Southern helipad then PAPI
helicopter will use the Nerthern helipad.

o The approved SOP also states that “Hf for some reason Fhe non
availability of passengers ete, the helicopter is required to be sss isehe!
off then the total duration of halt © “not exceed 1S niinutes (keopie
in view the Jimitation imposed ‘kof oxygen for crew. Eh
para was not mentioned in the S¢ Lawwas provided by the ep crater

1.18

1.19

Additional Information:

Nil

Recently on 02/05/2007 helipad joint inspection was carried by the
DGCA. They have made some deficiencies out of them one
deficiency was that “H” marked area is not very smooth and some
work will be required to smoothen the surface by District
Administration. The action ken report forwarded to DGCA does not
mention the action on said deficiency.

Useful or effective investigation techniques:

Nil.

ANALYSIS

HELICOPTER:

The helicopter had valid Certificate of Airworthiness and was maintained
as per the approved Maintenance Schedules. The certificate of release to
service in respect of the aircraft and engine was valid. There was
sufficient fuel to complete the flight. The All Up Weight and Centre of
Gravity of the aircraft were within the specified and appros ed Limits at
the time of commencement of flight, Phe helicopter had earlier Howe for
five sectors (Phata — Shri Kedarnathaji - Phata) on the same day j botil
flying hours 01:40hrs) without any abnormality or snag. The invealsed
flight crew had operated all the five sectors and there was He side
reported before and after the accident. This indicates that the hiehcopter
was serviceable at the time of accident.

After landing & touchdown, helicopter main rotor bhides 4s
rotating at full RPM with passengers on board.

In view of the above, the maintenance and serviceability of the
helicopter is not considered as a contributory factor to the accident.

WEATHER:

‘The weather condition at Shri Kedarnathji helipad was bright & sunny
with about | te 2 knots of tailwind at the time of accident. “Lhe tine of
accident was 0400 UTC Le in day time.

The weather has not contributed to the accident.

Pilot Factor:

SA 316B Alouette HL Chetak Helicopter is certified for singt
crew operation as per Certificate of Airworthiness /Flight manual. The
pilot was having valid licence for undertaking the fight & was leche
medically fit. The approved SOP for the operation does not require
oxygen provided: the helicopter is not being switched off at Shi:
Kedarnath ji under normal circumstances.

24

to
co

He served the IAF for 11 years. Thereafter, he joined Prabhatam
Aviation Pvt. Ltd. in Feb. 2004 and has about 3 years of flying
experience in civil aviation. There was neither skill test carried out nor
any assessment of high altitude landings and take offs was made for the
involved pilot. Proficiency checks records were lost in post accident
violence. (The personal flying log book of pilot has been lost in the post
accident violence al the site by the local people).

He has approx. 2250 hrs. flying experience on Chetak ahich
includes 1450 hrs. as PIC. He has got total hill flying experience of 2000
hrs. as PIC. In the last 30 days he has flown on Phata-Shri Kedarnathti-
Phata as PIC for about 82 hrs. The involved accident was caused dic to
breakdown of human factors and not due to deficiency in the professional
or flying competency of the pilot.

Standard Operating Procedures:

It is a common practice for helicopter pilots to entbark and
disembark passengers with the rotor running after the pilot or ground
crew has piven an appropriate briefing. ‘The practice is widespread in the
industry and is accepted by both companies and passengers even though
it involves some risk.

ORGANISATION & MANAGEMENT:

Based on the factual information as brought out in- para LA?
Oreanizational &  Manageniert Dyformation, sonic depicicnecles,
though not contributory to the accident were observed. The ope ator
need to amend and resubmit Operations Manual and resubinit ty
Operations Manual and SOP.

CIRCUMSTANCES LEADING FO THE ACCIDENT:

During accident sortie helicopter made normal approach for
landing. When helicopter came to hover over the helipad where the
landings were made usually, the marshaller signaled the pilot to
commence a sit down, When the helicopter after touchdown was in the
process of stabilising, pilot noticed that suddenly without waiting for
signal from him to approach the helicopter, a ground staff rushed towards
the helicopter. Ground staff had not lowered his body or head, as were
the instructions given while approaching the helicopter. Though the

_—

statement of marshalier could not be obtained as he hed bar ie:
company/not reported for duly after the accident, the other ex oss
corroborated the sequence of events.

Helicopter made landing on right side of touch down and ft off
area (TLOF) on unpaved surface (completely on Kuteha hard: proves
surface) of Shri Kedarnathji Eastern helipad with nose facing in South
direction at 11,500 feet above mean sea level instead of paved sur hice
made for landing/touchdown, which is marked for “EU. The pilot used to
land at the same place earlier also.

As per the procedure explained for landing, after touchdown, Ure
collective is fully lowered and controls are neutralized. This is a very
gradual process to be carried out very smoothly. Betore the controls are
neutralized the disc acts as a plate and depending upon the direction
speed of winds. attitude of the helicopter. ete. could be tilted in any
direction including the forward direction. fn addition the reductiva 19
distance between the ground and the main rotor blade tip due droop alse
depends upon the condition of nose wheel position and the evehe pitch
control position. Once the controls are neutralised, the main retor disc
also becomes horizontal and the pilot gives signal to the ground er sw Te
approach. Though in normal circumstances the height of main rotet
blades (dise) is quite high and ts tar above the height of the invelved
ground stat. Unfortunately ground crew approached without waiting Lot
pilot signal to approach.

The rotor disk alter touchdown may have been tilted in the
forward direction, causing fatal injury to the ground crew, The sur face ot
the landing area and non following of the safety instructions by the
Ground stalf contributed to the accident. From the above it is 6 ident that
the accident had happened due to combination of above events.

3, CONCLUSIONS:

3.1 Findings:

3.1.1 The helicopter had valid Certificate of Airworthiness and it was being
maintained airworthy as per the approved maintenance schedules.

3.1.2 The certificate of release to service in respect of the helicopter and
engine issued by appropriately licensed helicopter maintenance
engineer was valid on the day of accident.

3.1.3

3.1.4

3.1.5

3.1.6

3.1.8

3.1.9

3.1.10

3.1.11

3.1.12

3.1.13

3.1.14

3.1.15

3.1.16

3.1.17

The All-up-weight and Centre of Gravity of the helicopter were wills
the specified and approved limits.

The helicopter was fully serviceable and had flown five sectors carltc
without any abnormality’snag.

The crew operating the fight was appropriately licensed to undertite
the flight.

The organisation has not provided aining/checks records like
clearance for hill operation as PIC by an examinel. special trang
specific to hill operation, periodical recurrent checks, profictenes
checks & special VFR training for ins estigation.

There was neither skill test carried out nor any assessment of high
altitude landings and take offs made for the involved pilot.

Operator has not deputed Marshaller lor investigation, and informed
that he has left the company/not reported for duty after the accident.

The flight plan was submitted’ booked on phone every day by the crew,
instead of filing the flight plan and submitting on fax to ATC.

After landing, when the main blades were rotating at full RPM with
passengers on board, one of the ground staff approached towards the
front right side of the helicopter and during this process the main reter
blade hit him and he succumbed to his injuries.

Helicopter main rotor (red) blade tip was damaged, due to hitting the
ground crew.

After the accident local people became violent and injured the pilot and
other staff and caused more damages to the helicopter.

The final position of the helicopter’s Nose landing gear tyre was found
in the 3 inch deep soil pit.

As the pilot log book has been lost in the post accident violence at the
site by the local people, the pilot Hying hours are an approximation.
Company operations manual has not been updated as per DGCA
requirements.

The SOP submitted by the operator used different nomenclature for
identifying the helipads.

Complete action taken report on the deficiencies of the helipad joint
inspection by the DGCA was not submitted.

Probable Cause:

we
=)

After landing, when the main blades were rotating at full RPAT ss ih
passengers on board, one of the ground staff approached towards the
front right side of the helicopter and during this process the main retor
blade hit him and he succumbed to his injuries.

4 SAFETY RECOMMENDATIONS:

(i) Appropriate training specific to hill operations may be, imparted to pilot,

(ii) Refresher training may be given to all ground crew.

(Gil) In view of the deficiencies regarding operational control exercised by the
company, a detailed one time safety oversight inspection of operator may
be carried out,

(iv) Non scheduled. operators be adv ised to maintain operational traning
records of crew members as required in the regulations.

i]
i . \
f 5 [see
(R.S. Passi)

Inspector of Accidents
22.1.2010


