CoN FILDENTIAL
LON PARE eae

=|

REPORT
OF THE
COMMITTEE OF INQUIRY
ON THE
ACCIDENT TO SUPER KING AIR AIRCRAFT

VT-EOA ON 27.08.92 NEAR IGI AIRPORT
NEW-DELHI

Air Cmde. R.P.S. Garcha
Air II, Eastern Air Command, Shillong.
CHAIRMAN, COMMITTEE OF INQUIRY

MEMBERS

A.K. Gupta, V.K. Chandna
Dy. Director, LB. Director Air Safety
Delhi Region

INDEX

CONTENTS PAGE
1.1. BRIEF NARATION OF THE ACCIDENT 2
12 INJURIES TO PERSONS 4
13. DAMAGE TO AIRCRAFT 4
14 OTHER DAMAGE 5
15 CREW INFORMATION 5
15.1 Pilot-in-Command 5
1.5.2 Capt. A.K. Jha 6
1.5.3 Wg. Cdr. S. Beri 7
1.5.4 Sh. M. Nair 7
16 AIRCRAFT INFORMATION 7
1.6.1 History of Aircraft 7
1.6.3: maintenance Work/Inspection on Aircraft v]
in 1992
1.6.4 Brief History of Defects 11
1.6.5 Replacements and Major Repairs 12
1.6.6 Weight and Balance 13
17 METEOROLOGICAL INFORMATION 13
1.8 AIDS TO NAVIGATION . 14
1.9 COMMUNICATION 14
1.10 AERODROME INFORMATION 15
111 FLIGHT RECORDERS 16
1.12) WRECKAGE AND IMPACT INFORMATION 16
1.13) MEDICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL INFORMATION 24
1.14 FIRE 26
1.15 SEARCH, RESCUE AND EVACUATION 26
116 TEST AND RESEARCH 27
1.16.1 - Pathological Examination at IAM, Bangalore 27
of Heart
1.16.2 Central Forensic Science Laboratory Report 28
1.16.3 Mentat Tablets Examination 29
1.16.4 Engines and Propeller Examination 30

{i)
‘ne te er

2A ema Mh er

1.17

1.16.5
1.16.6

1.16.7

Explosive Examination by Bomb Detection
and Disposable Squad, BCAS

Metallurgical Examination Report on Failed
Flight Control Cables and Propeller
Attachments

Spectrum Analysis Report of NAL of Words
"Go Ahead Sir’ in the ATC Tape Transcript
of Accident Flight

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

1.17.1 Salient Observations Made by Doctors
1.17.2 Training and Checks for the BSF Pilots
1.17.3 Crew Requirement for Twin Engined Aircraft
1.17.4 Training and Refresher for Airport Medical
Officer/Ambulance Attendants
1.17.5 Annual Medical Checks of BSF Officials,
Pre-flight Examination of the Crew and
Flight Duty Time Limitation for the Crew
1.17.6 Aircraft Maintenance Presonnel of BSF
1.17.7 BSF Air Wing Security Arrangements
ANALYSIS
2.1 Was the Aircraft Fully Serviceable Prior to Impact?
2.1.1 Maintenance Records
2.1.2 Wreckage Examination
2.2 Was it a Sabotage?
2.3 Human Failure Aspects
2.3.1 Was It a Case of Suicide?
2.3.2 Was it a Case of Pilot's Incapacitation?
24 Post Crash Actions
2.4.1 Photography of Dead Body at Site
2.4.2 Post Mortem and Preservation of Viscera
CONCLUSIONS
3.1 Findings
3.2 Cause of Accident
RECOMMENDATIONS

35

36

37

re REPORT ON ACCIDENT TO BORDER SECURITY FORCE

BEECH SUPE

1.

10.

“

R_ KING AIR B-200_C

AIRCRAET_VT-EOA ON

27.8.92 NEAR IGI_AIRPORT, NEW_DELHI.

AIRCRAFT :
TYPE
MODEL
NATIONALITY
REGISTRATION

DATE & TIME OF
ACCIDENT

OWNER/ OPERATOR

POINT OF DEPARTURE :

INTENDED POINT OF
LANDING

TYPE OF OPERATION

PHASE OF OPERATION :

PLACE OF ACCIDENT

CREW

INJURIES

BEECH SUPER KING AIR
B200 C

INDIAN

VT-EOA

278.92 1159 hrs, IST (APPROX.)

DIRECTOR GENERAL-BORDER
SECURITY FORCE, F BLOCK,
NIRMAN BHAWAN, NEW DELHI

DELHI AIRPORT

DELHI AIRPORT

CIRCUITS & LANDINGS

DOWN WIND LEG OF RUNWAY 28.

ABOUT 2.75 KMS. SOUTH OF
AIRFIELD CLOSE TO NATIONAL
SECURITY GUARD (NSG) UNIT/
GURGAON ROAD.

SOLE OCCUPANT PILOT-IN-COMMAND
CAPT. T.S. DHALIWAL.

FATAL

( All Timings are in IST }

1.1. BRIEF NARRATION OF THE ACCIDENT

\ 1.1.1 On 27.08.92 VT-EOA operated flight Delhi-Leh-Delhi to pick up D.G. ITBP from
: Leh to Delhi with Capt. A. K. Jha as Pilot-in-Command, Wg. Cdr. S. Beri as
Navigator and Mr. M. Nair as Radio officer. The aircraft had departed from
IGI Airport, New Delhi at 0700 hrs. and had landed at Leh at 0900 hrs. After
a halt of 15 minutes, the aircraft took off from Jeh at 0915 hrs. and landed
back at IGI Airport at 1100 hrs. No abnormality was reported by the crew with

the aircraft.

1.1.2 In the meantime at 1030 hrs. IST, late Capt. Dhaliwal had filed a flight plan
t with ATC Palam for local flying circuits & landings to be carried out at 1130
hrs on this aircraft. On arrival of the aircraft from Leh the aircraft was
accepted by Late Capt. Dhaliwal and Co-pilot Capt. A.K. Jha for circuits.
Aircraft taxied out from the BSF apron and at 1133 hrs., reported its position
on ‘Echo’, when the Tower asked the aircraft to line up and hold. At 1136
hrs., the aircraft was cleared for take-off from Runway 28, turn left and climb
to 2500 ft. and report down wind on QNIT 1006 HIPA. The wind reported was
260/03 knots. At 1138 hrs. the aircraft reported down wind on Runway 28. At

1140 hrs. the pilot reported finals with landing gear lights ‘Three Green’, On
a query from tower to confirm making a ‘Full Stop Landing’ or ’ Touch and

Go’, the aircraft reported to be carrying out ’ Touch & Go’.

1.1.3 The aircraft touched down at 1141 hrs. After touch down, it requested
| permission for Short Circuit/ Bad Weather Circuit. The tower cleared the
aircraft for the same and told to report down wind on runway 28. At 1143
hrs., after the second circuit when the aircraft reported for the finals, the

aircraft was cleared for’ touch & go’ but the pilot informed the tower that he

will be doing a ‘full stop landing’ and the aircraft was cleared for the same.

Tower cleared the aircraft to back track and asked for vacating the runway on

‘B ’. The pilot informed the tower that he will go to the B.S.F Hanger.

1.1.4 After landing, the pilot again requested the ATC at 1145 hrs.that he will like
to go for one more circuit if the traffic permits. The Tower gave a consent for
the third circuit and asked to line up on Runway 28. At 1146 hrs., the aircraft
informed the tower for lining up on runway 28. The tower cleared the aircraft

for take-of giving winds 260/03 knots. At 1147 hys., the tower was informed

: 2

a

by the aircraft that it is rolling. Immediately after the above transmission , the
pilot reported to the tower that it was vacating the runway for two minutes.
The pilot asked the Tower about the duration of the delay. The tower
informed that there were ‘two departures and one arrival’. The Tower asked
the pilot to confirm about duration of delay on their part, The aireratt reported
back that they are checking up because something has gone wrong with the
door and it will take just about 2 to 3 minutes. At this stage Capt. A.K. Jha
Co-pilot on board the aircraft was disembarked on I taxi tack. At L151 hrs.,
the aircraft requested to the tower for lining up, to which the Tower reported
to hold pusition. At 1152‘hrs., the aircraft asked the tower for the duration of
delay. The tower informed the delay is expected to be of 15 mts. At 1153 hrs.,
another aircraft VVF (Air Force Aircraft) called the tower. .The tower asked
VVF aircraft to line up on runway 27 and hold. At 1155 hrs., tower advised
the BSF aircraft to line up on runway 28 and hold which was confirmed by
the aircraft. The Air Force VVF Aircraft which was lining up on runway 27

was given ATC clearance for Chandigarh.

At 1156 hys., VVF aircraft was cleared by the tower for take off. At this
juncture the BSF aircraft was also seen rolling and was instructed by the
tower to hold position. The tower made repeated calls to BSF aircraft to cancel
take off as VVF aircraft was rolling. At 1157 hrs., VVF aircraft abandoned take
off and averted a dangerous situation as the directions of runway 27 and 28

converge.

At 1158 hrs. after the repeated calls by Delhi Tower, the BSF aircraft responded
by saying ‘Go Ahead Sir’, which was the last transmission from the BSF
aircraft. The tower informed the aircraft that it was not cleared for take off and
asked how the take off was done without the ATC permission. The take off
clearance was given to VVF aircraft from runway 27. After this there were
repeated calls from the tower to the BSF aircraft for the confirmation but there
was no response from the aircraft. The aircraft was seen going down after it
had turned for down wind leg. At 1159 hrs. another Air Force aircraft VVR
coming to Delhi from Hindon Airport informed tower that probably the BSF

aircraft has crashed.

1.1.6

1.2

1.3

The NSG personnel have their training camp close to the accident site and
were undergoing their routine training schedule at the time of accident. As per
eye witness statements, the aircraft approached from the airport side and took
a turn and after that appeared to be going, down ina pitch down altitude.
The engine sound was there and the aircraft propellers were reported turning.
There was no fire to the aircraft . A loud thud sound was reported to have
been heard during impact with ground. The fire emerged immediately after

the aircraft impacted the ground.

NSG personnel were the first to reach the site of accident, They cordoned
off the area and put out the fire with the help of fire extinguishers and buckets
of water before airport fire tenders could reach the site of accident.The airport
fire services reached the site Of accident in about ten minutes. The aircraft
impacted the ground in a pitch down attitude, caught fire and somersaulted
in a pond at the site of accident which was filled with water. Capt.
T.S.Dhaliwal who was the sole occupant on board the aircraft got killed due

to post impact forces,

Dead body of late Capt. Dhaliwal got deshaped and was lying on the slope of
the water pond. It was removed by airport fire services and was carried in the
airport fire Ambulance to the airport M.I. Room. The body was later removed

to the Safdarjung hospital where postmortem examination was carried ort.

INJURIES TO PERSONS

Capt. T.S.Dhaliwal who was the sole occupant on board the aircraft received
fatal injuries and died instantly:The general pattern of injuries is that of

decelerative type crush injuries as expected in a fairly high velocity impact.

The face was split into two portions. There were lacerations through the skin
of the lower lip. These injuries could be due to hitting sharp object in the

cockpit structure. There were multiple fractures to the bones.

DAMAGE TO AIRCRAFT
SAMAUE 10 AIRCRAFT

The aircraft was totally destroyed due to impact forces and subsequent fire.

14

15
1.5.1

OTHER DAMAGE

There was no other daniage.

CREW_INFORMATION
PILOT IN COMMAND

Name : Sh. Trilok Singh Dhaliwal
Date of Birth , ae 1.5.1940
Licence No. : ALTP No. 773
Valid upto : 12.11.92 ( Initially
issued on 17.6.75)
Category : Single/multi engine land
aircraft.

Type of aircraft
endorsed : DC-3, HT-2, Harvard,
Queen Air-80.

Open rating was issued for all conventional types of airplanes having an all
up weight not exceeding 2500 kgs. on 12.5.7. In continuation open rating was

issued for all types of airplane having all up weight not exceeding 5700 kgs.

He was DGCA approved Examiner on Super King Air B-200 and HS-748
aircraft.

Endorsed on Super King Air B-200 and HS-748 aircraft. FRTO NO. 2112 Valid
up to 12.5.93,

His Instrument ratings on HS-748 aircraft was last renewed on 6.8.91 and was
valid upto 5.8.92. Instrument rating on Super King Air B-200 aircraft was last
renewed on 3.9.91 and was valid upto 6.9.92.

His last route check and local check on HS-748 aircraft was carried out on

12.2.92 and is valid for six months with a grace period of one month.

Total flying experience
as on date of accident : 13519 hrs. 46 mts.

Flying Experience on
Super King Air B-200
from March 1988 till
date of accident : 1099 hrs. 51 mts.

Flying experience on

Super King Air B-200

aircraft during last

30 days > 2 hrs. 45 mls.

Prior to the date of accident he had flown HS-748 aircraft to Amritsar on
23.08.92.

His last medical for renewal of ALTP licence was done on 28.4.92 at Air Force
CME New Delhi. He was found fit subject to wearing of corrective  bi-

focal/look over glasses while exercising privileges of his licence.

Capt. Dhaliwal was involved in an incident prior to subject accident on 21.7.84
on Super King Air aircraft at Safdarjung airport. The aircraft had abandoned
takeoff and during the process it over shot the runway and went into kutcha
for nearly 90 ft. before coming to rest. Investigation has revealed that the

aircraft was overloaded.

Late Capt. T. 5. Dhaliwal had joined BSF (Air Wing) on deputation from Indian
Air Force on 7.2.72 as a pilot and was later absorbed in BSF on 19.1.78. He
was given acting yank of Deputy Director (Air Ops.) with effect from 16.52.78
and was confirmed in that rank from 11.11.80. He was placed in the acting
rank of 1G (Air Wing) w.ef 21.6..88 and was subsequently confirmed in this
yank from 8.11.89, with designation Director, BSF(Air Wing), which he was last

holding at the time of accident.

Capt. A. K. Jha holder of CPL No. 1205 had flown with Capt. Dhaliwal during
the first two circuits and landings at IGT airport on 27,8.92 prior to the eventtul
third sortie. Earlier on the eventful day Capt. Jha had flown VI-EOA aircraft
Delhi-Leh-Delhi to bring DG ITBP from Leh to Delhi. Capt. Jha had got CPL
licence on 22.9.78. He had joined BSF (Air Wing) as Trainee pilot on 21.11.85.
After passing, the technical examinations conducted by DGCA on DC-3 and HS-
748 aircraft, he was appointed as a Co-pilot of BSF (Air Wing) wef, 11.12.88.

6

1.5.3

1.5.4

1.6
1.6.1

As a holder of CPL licence, Capt Jha is authorised to act as pilot in command
in the airplanes having all up weight up to 5700 kgs. He had pilot in
command endorsement on Super King Air aircraft. He had flown as pilot in
command for 550 hrs. (Approx.) on Super King Air aircraft during past two

years.

Wg. Cdr. S. Beri had gone as Navigator in Super King Air aircraft during its
flight from Deihi to Leh and back on 27.8.92. He is in possession of Ist class
Navigation licence issued by DGCA and holder of Cat. A in the Indian Air
Force on HS-748 aircraft. ,

Sh. M. Nair had gone in the aircraft to Leh and back as Radio Officer on
27.8.92. He is qualified Aeronautical Radio Maintenance Engineer on Super
King Air aircraft. There is also an endorsement in his licence for Avro aircraft

to act as Radio Maintenance Engineer.

AIRCRAFT INFORMATION
HISTORY OF AIRCRAFT:
Beechcraft Super King Air Aircraft B-200C bearing manufacturers S.No.BL-129,

was manufactured by beech Aircraft Corporation, Wichita, Kansas, U.S.A. on
19th May,1987. The aircraft was fitted with two Pratt and Whitney PT6A-42
turboprop engines bearing S.NO.PCE 94102 on Port side and S.NO.PCE 94100
on starboard side, driving 3 blades Hartzell variable pitch Propellers, Type HC- —
B3TN-3N bearing hub S.NO.BV17132 at Port side and BU-17182 at starboard
side.

A certificate of compliance, indicating that all the FAA mandatory modifications
and Beech aircraft Corporation Class I Service Instructions applicable to the

aircraft were complied with, as issued by the manufacturers,

The aircraft was bought by Director General Border Security Force through
M/s Indamer (P) Ltd., Juhu Bombay, from the manutacturer’s plant at Wichita,
U.S.A. After the aircraft was issued with FAA Export Certificate of
Airworthiness No.E16437 on 22nd June; 87, it was ferry flown to Bombay on
22nd July,87 with American Registration No.N72401 issued by FAA. The aircraft
was cleared by Air Customs, Bombay on 24th July, 1987,

7

After arrival of the aircraft in India, the aircraft was issued with the Indian
Certificate of Registration $.No.2387 on 7th August,87. The first Indian
Certificate of Airworthiness No.1891 was issued on 7th Aug.,87 by the Director
General of Civil Aviation under the category ‘Normal’, sub-division ‘Private
aircraft’. The maximum all up weight was 5669.90 Kgs. or 12500 Ibs. The said
certificate was valid upto 2ist June, 88. The C of A certificate specifies

minimum crew necessary for the aireraft as one.

Before issue of Indian Certificate of Airworthiness, the aircraft was subjected
to schedules approved by the D.G.C.A. at the maintenance facilities of M/s

Indamer (P) Ltd., Bombay, which is an approved organisation,

The aircraft and engine hours as on the date of accident are as follows :

AIRFRAME :

Hours since New 1347 hrs 24 mts

tl

Hours since last C of A

0

157 hrs 29 mts

Number of landings Since New = 981
Number of landings Since Last = 95
CofA

ENGINES :

The aircraft is fitted with two Pratt & Whitney Turboprop PT6A-42 engines.

Port Engine Stbd_ Engine
(S.NO. PCE 94102) (S.NO. PCH 94 [00)
Hrs since New 1347 hrs 24 mts 1347 hrs 24 mts
Hrs since last 157 hrs 29 mts 157 hrs 29 mts
CofA
PROPELLERS :

Hartzell variable pitch propeller type HC-B 3TN-3N are installed. The
propellers were overhauled by M/s Cama Aviation at their facilities at Juhu

aerodrome, Bombay on completion of 1189:55 hrs. on 21.1.92,

1.6.2

1.6.3

Port Eng.Prop. Stbd Eng.Prop.

SI. No. BU 17132 BU 17182
Hrs. Since New 1347:24 Hours 1347:24 Hours
Hrs Since Last 157:29 Hours 157:29 Hours
CofA

The aircraft was maintained by BSF (Air Wing) & m/s Indamer Bombay in
accordance with the programme drawn up on the recommendations of the

manufacturers and approved by DGCA as follow :-

i) Pre-flight

ii) DI.

iii) 15 days / 25 hrs
iv) 30 days / 50 hrs
v) 90 days / 100 hrs
vi) 180 days / 200 hrs
vii) 270 days / 300 hrs
viii) 360 days / 400 his
ix) C of A inspection

MAINTENANCE WORK/INSPECTION ON AIRCRAFT IN 1992 -

The 1000 hrs./ 4 year maintenance schedule on the aircraft auto pilot system
and its components was done on 11.2.92 by M/s Indamer. The Inspection
schedule on fuel manifold adopter and nozzle which is required to be done at
every 400 hrs. of operation was accomplished on 9.4.92 by M/s Indamer when
both the engines had done 1189.55 hrs, since new. Prior to the accident, the
last renewal of C of A on the aircraft was accomplished on 9,4,99 by M/s ©
Indamer when both the engines had done 1189.55 hrs. since new.The aircraft
was also subjected to Check IV (400 hrs./360 days) and the lower inspection

schedules in addition to the following major maintenance works;

1. All landing §ear assemblies and associated hydraulic components were
overhauled.

9

Electrical accessories were bench checked/ overhauled as per the

requirements.

Flaps and Flight Control surfaces including tabs were inspected for

condition, cracks, damages and corrosion.

All pulleys, bell cranks and push pull rods of aircraft flight controls were

inspected for condition and security.

Rudder torque shaft was inspected as per Beech mandatory SB NO,2422

and was found Satisfactory,

Flight control surface trim tab free play inspection was carried out as per

Beech mandatory SB No.2211 Rev 1 and were found satisfactory.

Movement of flight control surface and cable tension were checked and

recorded.

Both propellers were overhauled on 22.1.92 on their completion of
1189.55 hys. since new.

Apart from the major inspections which are carried out by M/s Indamer and

the following inspection schedules were carried out by BSF Air Wing since

issue of last C of A

i)

ii)

iii)

v)

25 hrs/15 days : ON 23.04.92 by AME NO. 2367
50 hrs/30 days : ON 06.05.92 by AME NO. 2367
25 hrs/15 days : ON 21.05.92 by AME NO. 2367
50 hrs/30 days : ON 05.06.92 by AME NO. 2367

25 his/15 days : ON 13.06.92 by AME NO, 2367

10

1.6.4

vi) 100 hrs/90 days : ON 24.06.92 by AME NO. 2367
vii) 25 hrs/15 days : ON 14.07.92 by AME NO. 3093
viii) 50 hrs/30 days : ON 30.07.92 by AME NO. 2367
ix) 25 hrs/15 days : ON 14.08.92 by AME NO. 2367
The Certificate of Flight Release was valid til] 28.8.92.

All the applicable modifications on the aircraft were complied with.

BRIEF_ HISTORY OF DEFECTS ON AIRCRAFT, ENGINES AND THE
PROPELLERS DURING THE YEAR 1991 & 1992:
SE SIE YEAR 1991 & 1992:

The following are the reported defects during the period 1991 & 1992 and the

rectification action taken -

18.6.9] PDR
Weather radar intermittent,

RECTIFICATION

Reracking and cleaning of connectors carried out, checked and found
satisfactory on ground. To check the proper functioning of the radar in terms
of correct weather presentation and endurance,a text Hight of long duration is
required. Checked on test flight, operation O.K,

14.7.91 PDR
Omega navigation unit data base is outdated. System unserv-
iceable.

RECTIFICATION

KNS660, Omega system is updated in Indamer Co. Bombay. The system is

serviceable.

26.10.91 PDR
Pilot side storm window leaking.

RECTIFICATION
Seal found detached. Re-done with adhesive. Window closing O.K.

22.4.92 PDR
1. No transmission from co-pilot side on VHF/ HE.

1

2. No smoking and cabin light coming ON when 02 system
is put to system ready position.
RECTIFICATION
1. Normal/oxygen S/W connection found loose and disconnected. Same

reconnected and system checked on ground, found satisfactory.

2. Removed Pt. No.101-384034-1 pressure switch and reinstalled new switch.
System checked for operation. Found satisfactory.

No snag was reported on the aircraft during the flight Delhi-Leh-Dethi_ prior

to accident and in the first two,circuits and landing before the fateful circuit.

1.6.5 REPLACEMENT AND MAJOR REPAIR CARRIED OUT DURING LAST ONE
YEAR FROM THE DATE OF ACCIDENT :

1. 24.7.91
Volt/load meter was replaced due its becoming unserviceable (not
reading)
2. 1.8.91
1. Wind shield temperature controller (RI) was replaced as it became
unserviceable.
2. Digital clock was replaced as it became unserviceable.
3. 5.8.91
ITT indicator (LH) was replaced as it became unserviceable.
4. 9.8.91
LH out board tyre was replaced due it becoming worn out.
5. 22.8.91
Artificial Horizon was replaced due erratic with new after bench check.
6 26.8.91

TSI was replaced as it become unserviceable.

7. 6.9.91
Right hand out board flap switch was replaced due it malfunctioning,

8. 16.12.91
Compass check. Swing check was carried out.

9. 3.4.91
Pressure switch was replaced as it was malfunctioning.

10. 13.4.92
Cabin air temperature gauge was replaced due not reading.

12

1.6.6

1.7

11. 14.8.92 ;
Out board (No.1 LH Side) pane assembly was replaced as it was found
cracked.

WEIGHT & BALANCE :

Empty weight of the aircraft = 3642 Kg
Radio Equipment Weight = 127 Kg
Oil wt. oe 10 Kg
Weight of Crew _ = 75 Kg
Weight of Fuel at Take-off = 730 Kg (*)

(* Full tank fuel = 3900 Ibs minus fuel used for Leh flight i.e. 2300 Ibs = 1600
Ibs = 730 Kg approx.)

Total weight at the time of take-off thus works out to be 4585 Kg. The CG
limits for all up weight 5116 Kg or less in forward is 459.74 cm and in aft is
498.86 cm. Since the total weight of the aircraft at the time of take-off was less
than 5116 Kg, the CG was within limits,

METEOROLOGICAL INFORMATION :

The relevant meteorological data was made available to the aircraft by the
tower before take-off. The weather conditions over IGI Airport were above
muniina for take off and landing. The weather prevailing at IGI airport as per
METARS issued by meteorological Department at Palam at 0600 UT.C & at
0630 UTC were as follows :

At 0600 U.T.C

Surface Wind 280/06 Knots

Visibility 4500 mm.

Clouds base 5/8 750 m. (2500 ft.)
1/8 1200 m. (4000 ft.)
5/8 3000 m. (10,000 ft.)

Temperature 31°C

Dew Point 27 C

QNH 1010 HPA =. 29.69inch

QFE 978 TIPA  28.89inch

Tempo. TS,
13


18

1.9

At 0630 U.T.C

Surface Wind 260/03 Knots
Visibility 4500 m.
Cloud base 5/8 750 M (2500 ft.)

1/8 CB 1200 m (4000 ft.)
5/8 3000 M (10000 ft.)

Temperature “31°C
Tempo. T.S.
QNH 1005 HPA 29.68 INCHES
QFE 978 HPA 28.89 inches
Tempo T.S.
27.8.92

The accident had occurred at 1159 hrs. IST (0629 UTC). The weather was not

a factor to the accident.

AIDS TO NAVIGATION :

Bist NAVIGATION

Delhi Airport and the Super King aircraft are equipped with the required
navaids/instruments. As the aircraft was doing local VFR circuits, aids to

navigation are not relevant.

COMMUNICATION :
Super King Air B-200 aireraft is equipped with 2 VHF sets. In the event of
failure of one set, the communication can be continued with the second set.

If both these sets fails, communication can still be continued on HE.

From ATC tape transcript of the accident flight, it is observed that after the
aircraft took off without ATC clearance and it was approximately 40. secs,
before the crash that late Capt. Dhaliwal replied "go ahead Sir" on repeated
calls from the Tower. Since the aircraft had no reported snag and radio
equipment were serviceable during Delhi-Leh-Dethi flight as well as during the
first two circuits and upto the commencement of the last circuit, the probability

that there was a total communication failure can be safely ruled out.

14


a

1.10
140.1

1.10.2

1.10.3

1.10.4

AERODROME INFORMATION :
IGI Airport is located approx. [5 kms from Delhi at a bearing of 228. The

administrative authority of the airport is vested with International Airports
Authority of India, New Delhi and Air Navigation Services is provided by
National Airports Authority. The aerodrome is Operational for full 24 hours
and serviceable during all seasons. The airport has Category IX Fire Protection
facility provided by the IAAL

The IGI airports has two runways available for operation for which runway
10/28 is declared as the main instrument runway. The physical characteristics

of this runway is as follows :

Runway True Dimension Runway Surface

Designation Bearing PCN

10/28 104°/284° = 12500 ft 55/F/B/W/T Concrete
150 ft

The Runway 28 which the aircraft was using is provided: with runway edge,
threshold and centreline high intensity lights. ‘The approach lighting on
runway 28 consists of CAT II lighting system extending upto 3051 feet from
displaced threshold. It is provided with 3 Bar PAPI. Runway 28 is equipped
with ILS CAT Il and VOR/DME approach,

The visual ground marking aids available are runway designation, centreline,
threshold and touchdown zone.

On the northern side of runway 28,there are two fire stations of IAAL The
main fire station is located on the eastern edge of Delta taxi track and the sub
fire station I is located on the eastern edge of runway 15/33 adjacent to B taxi
track. The watch tower on main fire station has a clear view of all aircraft
touching down on runway 28. For any aircraft emergency on runway 10/28,
the fire safety vehicles from the two fire stations can enter runway 10/28 from
their stands by means of connecting taxiways i.e. fire vehicles from main
stations can use D taxiway to enter on runway 10 side and fire vehicle from

sub station I can enter tunway from 28 side via E taxiway.

15


1.10.5 In the instant case the fire was extinguished by National Security Guards fire

extinguishers who have their training camp near to the accident site. The
airport fire services had reached the accident site in about 10 minutes after the

accident and carried out the salvage for the aircraft wreckage.

FLIGHT RECORDERS -

No flight recorders are installed on ‘this aircraft nor it is required under the
rules. As per CAR series T part II aircraft with all up weight of 5700 kgs and
above are required to be fitted with CVR and FDR. Beechcraft Super King Air
aircraft's maximum all up weight is 5669 kgs, which is marginally lower than
the cut figure of 5700 kgs. Keeping in view that VIPs are flown by this aircraft,
provision of at least a CVR is necessary.

WRECKAGE AND IMPACT INFORMATION :
The layout of the main wreckage and position of main components at the crash,

site is indicate in wreckage plot at Annexure ‘C’ and in the photographs.

The main wreckage was found lying in a ditch, having water, approx. 350 feet
from the initial point of impact of the aircraft. The main Structure of the
aircraft was totally crushed except the tail portion. The aircraft main wreckage
was found in inverted Position indicating that it had over turned while falling
into the ditch,

a) IMPACT INFORMATION :
EA EORMATION

Aircraft first impacted the Sround in disused area close to Gurgaon road
(approx. 2.7 Km. south of Tunway 28/10) in pitch down and more or
less wing level attitude. Fire had initiated immediately after the impact
and its signs could be Seen on the scattered wreckage pieces along the
flight path after bounce. Some bushes also caught fire. General pattern
of the fire damage indicated that fire was more intense on the port side.
Tall bushes were found trimmed by the Moving aircraft just Prior to the
impact which gave indications about the aircraft attitude at the time of
impact. Initially nose undercarriage hit the ground closely followed by
main undercarriage and the engines. Initial impact was very severe

which led to crushing and disintegration of the aircraft. The crashed

16

b)

¢)

a)

aircraft bounced and moved ahead for about 350 ft. before falling into

a water pond wherein it over turned.

WRECKAGE EXAMINATION AT SITE -

After the bounce the broken structure pieces kepton falling down in the
path till it fell into the ditch. Some of the detached portions had flown
ahead of main wreckage with the forward momentum. Nose
undercarriage, the detached propeller blades and servo control units

were found in the initial impact area.

Both the engines had detached and were lying along with the main
wreckage. The needle of one of the air speed indicators was found stuck
at 210 knots, indicating the probable aircraft speed at impact.

The needle of the starboard engine torque indicator was found stuck at

reading 1800 ft. Ibs. which is close to full power,

Undercarriage was down and locked and flaps were at 40% Positions at
the time of impact. Flap position was indicated by the flap actuator
extension and the selection lever position. This is the take off/ approach

flap position.

No aircraft part was located before the first hnpact point indicating that

there was no inflight disintegration of the aircraft.

RETRIEVAL OF WRECKAGE :

Though tail portion of the aircraft was found separated from rest of the
wreckage, yet the control cables Tun was continuous. Therefore, it was
not possible to retrieve the complete wreckage in single stretch and it
necessitated cutting of control cables, wires etc. After cutting the control

cables, these were properly identified and masked.

BUILT-UP OF WRECKAGE IN HANGAR :
SE AERRAGE IN HANGAR

The aircraft wreckage was spread, as per plan view of the aircraft, in

the BSF hangar. Following salient observations were made in general.

i) The empennage portion of aircraft was almost intact. The
starboard elevator was found bent and twisted, however, there
was no damage either to port side elevator or to rudder including

trim tabs.
ii) Bottom portion of the fuselage was completely crushed.

iii) | Most of the windows were intact. Inner pane of few of them was

found cracked and some were having fire damage.

iv) | Cockpit was completely crushed along with the crew windows and
storm windows. Wind screen was detached from the main

structure and shattered.

v) All the seats were found liberated from the fittings. No seat fitting
was found intact. Seats and seat rests were also found separated.
Two seats had little fire damage. Seat belts were also found

damaged and separated from their fittings.

vi) Both the port and starboard wings were broken in number of

pieces and had extensive fire damage.

After the wreckage built-up and placing of the — structural
parts /components, engines, landing gears etc., it was found that by and

large wreckage was complete.

EXAMINATION OF AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS/COMPONENTS :

i)

EXAMINATION OF FLIGHT CONTROLS :
a) ELEVATOR :

Following were the salient observations :

i) Starboard elevator was bent and broken. However, it was secured
properly with the hinges. Minor damage was observed on the

hinges,

18

iii)

iv)

v)

vi)

iii)

iv)

v)

vi)

Port elevator had small damage near the tip. No other damage
was observed on the port elevator. All the hinges were also
intact.

Elevators movenient was found to be in order.
Both the starboard and port tabs were moving properly.
Elevator servo cables were found attached to the main cables.

Both the attachment joints of the bell crank with the cable were
found intact with stop bolts properly locked. Link red was
properly secured with the column weld assembly, however, it was

found detached from the bell crank side.

RUDDER :

No apparent damage was noticed on the rudder.

On application of input from the control cable in the tail cone,

rudder movement was in the correct sense.

Rudder tab was intact and was responding, positively on
application of input from the cable.

Rudder servo cables were found attached with the main cables.

Attachment of the rudder cable to the bell crank was intact,
however, the circular portion of the bell crank was found broken
into three pieces.

Both the support assemblies along with the rudder arms were
intact. Out of four rudder arms, three were found damaged by
impact.

RUDDER BOOST SYSTEM : ;

Both the pneumatic rudder servos were intact and found attached
to the primary rudder cable. With manual input, operation of
rudder boost system was found to be satisfactory.

19

ii)

iii)

iv)

v)

i)

iii)

PORT AILERON :
at AILERON

All the components of the aileron control system in the cockpit
namely weld assembly, universal joint, control column were found
badly damaged and separated from each other. However, chain
was attached at both the ends and chain safety mechanism was

fully secured at three places.

Cable joints to the central control quadrant were fully secured,
however, the cable was heavily damaged with many strands of
wire coming out. The central control quadrant was found attached

to the main Structure and was free to rotate,

The port side control cables in the wing from the quadrant were

attached to the quadrant though it was broken into pieces,

The bell crank in the wing was found bent from the middle,

however, the cable joint was secured,

The aileron was found broken in two Pieces near actuator, The
outer hinge bracket was also found twisted. Inner broken part of

aileron containing trim tab was badly crushed,

STARBOARD AILERON -

The joints of the cable with the quadrant servo and the turn
buckles was fully secured, However all of these were badly
damaged and broken into pieces,

It was possible to move the link rod by Operating the two cables.
The link rod was attached to the aileron and its operation was in

correct sense.

The aileron was found broken in two pieces at actuator attachment
point. Mid and outboard mounting brackets of the aileron were

found damaged.

20

ii)

vy
i)

ii)

1!)

ii)

FLAPS :

Flap lever was found along with the broken piece of the central
console. Micro switches attached to the flap lever were found
damaged and the electrical connections to the motor were found

disconnected.

PORT FLAP :

The inboard and outboard flaps were badly damaged and broken.
Flexible drive shaft from gear box to inboard actuator was intact,
however, it was found detached at the gearbox end. The flap
tracks were not:found damaged.

The inboard and outboard flaps actuator position in-situ condition

was measured and found to be at 40 percent.

STARBOARD FLAP :

The inboard and outboard flaps were found totally crushed and

damaged. The flexible drive shaft was found detached from the

actuator end as well as gear box end,

The inboard and outboard flaps actuator positions measured in
this case too revealed flap selection in 40% position which could
be either in takeoff or approach.

All the failures of control cables/rods fittings and the surfaces of the

flying control as discussed above were observed due to impact forces.

EXAMINATION OF LANDING GEAR :

i)

ii)

Both the main landing gears and nose landing gear were found
stuck in down and locked position.

On the port landing gear, the lock was displaced due to bend in
the upper and lower drag braces, However on the starboard main °
gear, the drag braces were fully secured with the strut assembly.
Upper drag brace of nose landing gear was found broken from
both the ends. Lower drag brace of nose gear was broken from
eye end.

21

iii) All the three landing gears were found separated from the main

wreckage.

iv) No fire evidence was noticed on the nose gear as well as the port
main gear. However, extensive fire damage was observed on the

starboard main gear.

v) Both the torque knees for main landing gears were found sheared

off at the eye end.

Tt can be concluded that landing Sears were down and locked at the
time of impact.

iii) EXAMINATION OF WINGS :
SIN OF WINGS

a) GENERAL CONDITION :
meee On LONDITION
i) Both the wing tips were totally crushed on bottom and upper side.

Navigation/strobe light portion were also crushed and smashed.

ii) Both the wings were found separated from the fuselage and were

in pieces,

b) PORT WING -

i) Portion of wing from tip to Station No. 194.829 was extensively
damaged due to fire on both Upper and lower side. However,
beyond Station No. 194.829, the fire damage was confined near the
leading edge only. The flexible tank in the leading edge was
found burnt and burst. The other two tanks in this area were
found burst without any fire damage.

ii) Wing integral tank and wing tip flexible tanks were completely
destroyed due to fire,

iii) Small fire damage was observed on the upper side of aileron near

the trailing edge.

22


¢)

iv) Fire damage was observed to a portion of the auxiliary tank near
inboard flap with concentration at fuel quantity probe. However,

the fire damage was confined to the tank portion.

v) By and large the port wing had extensive fire damage except the
main wheel well area, inboard flap and wing root leading edge

between engine and fuselage.

STARBOARD WING :
i) Wing tip portion upto Station No. 194.829 has no fire damage.

Both the integral and flexible tanks were, however, found crushed.

ii) Wing portion from Station No. 194.829 upto engine has extensive

fire damage. All the three flexible tanks were consumed by fire.
iii) Landing gear area has also fire damage.

iv) Although the auxiliary fuel tank was found burnt, the fire was

confined to small portion of tank only.

v) In general, the fire damage was internal. Externally there was no

fire dainage.

EXAMINATION OF COCKPIT AND CABIN :
WINDOW CONDITION :
ESV CONDITION

i) Windscreen was found detached from the fuselage with both the

lasses shattered.
ii) Cockpit windows on both the sides were found crushed and
liberated. The panel of port side window adjacent to the

windshield was found broken along with the fitting,

iii) Main cabin windows were more or less not damaged. However,

few inner panes were slightly cracked and found missing.

23

iv) Except for front two windows on port side, there was no fire

damage on others.

b) FLOOR CONDITION :
The floor was totally damaged and almost crushed into small pieces.
All the frames were found separated from fuselage skin. Stringers were
also crushed and badly damaged. The upholstery was also found in

pieces.

c) SEATS CONDITION :

All the seats were found separated from the fittings along with the floor

board. No seat fitting was found intact. Seats, seat rests and seat belts
were also damaged. Two cabin seats had small fire damage. Pilot's seat
belt was found locked indicating that it was not used by the pilot at the

time of crash.

d) COCKPIT CONDITION :
SNE LONDITION

Cockpit was found completely crushed along with central console, CB
console panel and instrument panel. Pilot and co-pilot control columns
were found broken. Engine and Propeller have been examined Separately

and findings on them are reflected in Chapter 1.16, Test & Research,

MEDICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL INFORMATION :
ee SERS LOGICAL INFORMATION

From the accident site deshaped dead body of late Capt. T. S. Dhaliwal was

recovered in the pond where crashed aircraft finally rested. The body was

removed to Mahipalpur police station in the IAA] ambulance. Dr, Major B. K,

singh, Medical officer IAA] accompanied the body to the police station and had

carried out the preliminary examination. Following were his observations ;

As fragmented and completely distorted human body has been rescued from

site. No viscera is preserved. No sample could be collected in such case.

Skull is open and torso is fragmented. All bony contours are distorted. Face
is smashed, both upper limb are broken, left upper limb is attached with trunk,
whereas right upper limb is completely crushed from mid arm. At torso

vertebral column is fractured and pelvis is also crushed on right side.Both

24


interior extremities are damaged ( right int. ext. is missing while left interior

extremity is amputated below knee).

A few bowel pieces are bulging out from right side of trunk and also few
pieces of flesh, bones, skin and body parts are placed by the side of body
separately. Accumulation of clotted blood, mud, bush leaves also present along

with flesh and torso.

POST MORTEM :

The postnortem examination was carried out at Safdarjuny [Hospital by Dr. G.
K. Chaubey, Forensic Medicine specialist. During autopsy examination Dr.
Bhalla ADG medical services, IAF and Dr. L. K. Banerjee, Dy. Director
(Medical) BSF were present. As per autopsy report, "Death was caused due
to blast injury of head & crush injury of chest and abdomen, along with

multiple injuries".

Face was observed split into two halves along with scalp. There were multiple
injuries on the body. Lungs were crushed into multiple pieces, Heart and aorta
had the rupture of right auricle and ventricle and of ascending and descending
aorta. Stomach was empty with bilious {uid present approx. 50 ml, Kidney was
observed slightly enlarged, pale wt. 200 gms. Liver was crushed into multiple

pieces.

The forensic medicine specialist had forwarded following viscera to SHO

Mahipalpur for conducting chemical examination.
i) Heart tissue ii) Blood sample iii) kidney, a piece of intercostal muscle v)
Apiece of skin from cheek with carbon particles vi) Carbon particle vii) Brain

tissue vii) Phial of ‘Mentat.’

Heart tissue was taken by DGCA official to Institute of aviation Medicine

Bangalore where detailed pathological examination was carried out.

Other viscera was sent to Central Forensic Science Laboratory for examination.

1.14

FIRE :

Aircraft caught fire immediately after the impact. ‘The fire was on broken wing
structure pieces, on the Stbd undercarriage area and on the bushes. National
Security Guard Cominandos who have got a unit close to accident site reached
the site immediately and did the fire fighting with their unit equipment. They
managed to put out the fire with fire extinguishers and buckets of water. The
fire fighting personnel of fire training centre of IAAI which is nearby located
to crash site reached shortly after the crash. However by that time fire was

extinguished and they cordoned the area.

SEARCH, RESCUE & EVACUATION :
BY_AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL TQWER :
As per ATC tape transcript at 1158 hrs. the BSF aircraft responded to repeated

calls of Delhi Tower Control by saying ‘Go Ahead Sir’. At this stage, the
Tower officer saw the aircraft taking a turn behind cargo complex terminal -
II near Centaur Hotel and was seen loosing height. At 1159 hrs. an Air Force
helicopter coming from ‘Hindon Airport’ informed Delhi Tower that "VOA‘
had crashed on down wind. At 1200 hrs., the Tower sounded ‘crash siren’ to
inform Sub fire station, Police control & Airport Manager. Crash siren however
does not sound at Airport Health officer’s/IAAI MI Room. The tower
subsequently informed on intercom Approach control, Watch Supervisory
Officer (WSO) & Airport Reporting Officer (ARO) about the crash.

BY NATIONAL SECURITY GUARDS (NSG) :

At approximately 12.00 hrs. NSG personnel who were undergoing at their

training camp near to the site of accident saw the aircraft coming from airport
side and taking a U-turn when near to Centaur Hotel. The aircraft crossed

passed them and crashed approx. 300 meters away with a loud thud sound &

_ caught fire. The NSG commandos rushed to the spot and cordoned off the area

and put out the fire with the help of fire-extinguishers and buckets of water.
They reached first at the site of accident. The airport fire training school

personnel reached the site subsequently after about 5 minutes.

BY AIRPORT FIRE SERVICES :

At 1158 hrs., Shri Jagdish Chander, Fire Officer who was taking a class of fire

trainees reported to have heard the sound of an explosion, Immediately he

26

1.16
1.16.1

disrupted the class and ordered the fire trainees to keep the fire extinguishers
in the water tanker and get the ambulance ready. On conforming that the -
sound was that of an air crash, he rushed to the crash site with Asstt. Fire
officer and fire- trainees along with fire tenders and ambulance. The fire was
already extinguished by N.S.G. personnel, Immediately Shri Jagdish Chander
along with Asstt. Fire Officer Shri K.M. Dhyani entered into the water pond
to search for the casualties. In the mean time, the airport fire services people
reached the site of accident along with airport doctor. The body was removed
by Airport fire services in a stretcher and was rushed in the ambulance to
airport M. I. room. Rest of the crew was engaged in search of another bodies.
Dewatering of the pond was also started to locate for more casualties which

was abandoned after BSF personnel told there was only one person on board.

TEST AND RESEARCH :
SS RESEARCH

PATHOLOGICAL EXAMINATION AT TAM BANGALORE OF THE HEART
SAMPLE (Exhibit No. 6):

A portion of the heart and aorta of late Capt. Dhaliwal was sent to Institute
of Aerospace Medicines Bangalore, for Histopathology / Toxicology examination,

The IAM test report is as follows:-

A. GROSS EXAMINATION :
A portion of heart received, This includes a part of left atrium including
left auricle; a part of mitral valve ring with anterior cusp of the mitral
valve, and a small portion (2-1/2" x I") of left ventricle. One cm. of
first part of aorta present and shows atheromatous plaques. Both the
coronary ostia are patent. The left coronary (main trunk) shows
atherosclerotic narrowing. The right coronary (main trunk) appears

normal. The first portion of the pulmonary trunk also attached.

B. HISTOPATHOLOGICAL EXAMINATION :
EAL EXAMINATION

1. Myocardium ; of left atrium and ventricle appear histologically
‘normal.
2. Aorta > shows mild atherosclerotic changes,

.

27


3. Coronary arteries : The left coronary artery (main trunk) shows
grade II atherosclerosis (over 50% occlusion of lumen). The right
coronary artery (main trunk) shows grade I atherosclerosis (mild
with less than 50% narrowing of numen). No calcification/

haemorrhage in the atheromatous plaque.

TOXICOLOGICAL EXAMINATION :

No sample received for toxicological analysis.

REMARKS: Both coronaries show atherosclerotic narrowing (more severe
in the left coronary artery), But these sections have been taken from the
main trunks of coronaries within one cm. of their origin in the aorta.
Since the entire heart was not available, serial section study of the
coronaries to detect any blockage could not be carried out. No other

pre-existing decease detected in small portion of heart received.

1.16.2 CENTRAL FORENSIC SCIENCE LABORATORY REPORT :

Following test samples of late Capt. Dhaliwal were removed during autopsy

examination and were sent to Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Lodhi Road,

New Delhi (Exhibit No. 7) for chemical analysis.

The CFSL laboratory report is as follows:

DESCRIPTION OF TEST SAMPLES :

1.

One sealed small plastic Jar containing a piece of kidney and intestinal

muscles marked as Exhibit No.1,

One sealed small plastic jar containing a one small plastic bottle labelled
as "MENTAT’ tablets marked as Exhibit, No.2.

One sealed small plastic jar containing blood gauze marked as Exhibit.
No.3.

One sealed small plastic jar said to contain brain tissue marked as
Exhibit. No.4.

28

1.16.3

5. One sealed small plastic jar said to contain carbon particles marked as
Exhibit. No.5.

6. One sealed small plastic jar containing 20 ml (approx.) of blood marked
as Exhibit. No.6.

7. One sealed cloth parcel said to contain clothes of the deceased marked

as Exhibit. No.7. ,
N

8. One sealed envelope said to contain carbon particles marked as Exhibit.
No.8.

RESULT OF ANALYSIS :

1. The Exhibit No.I and 4 gave negative tests for ethyl alcohol and common
intoxicated substances.

2. No opinion is offered about the Exhibit. No.2 as contents of tablets are

said to be Herbal.
3. No opinion is offered as Exhibit. No.3 is dried blood gauze,

4, No opinion is offered with respect to query No.5 and 8 in connection
with Exhibit No, 5 and 8.

5. The Exhibit No.6 gave positive tests for Ethyl Alcohol.

6, The opinion regarding blood grouping in Exhibit No.3, 6 and 7 is

attached herewith from Biology Divn. separately.

MENTAT TABLETS EXAMINATION :
EOP ADEE EXAMINATION

Request was made by the committee to Cental Forensic Laboratory (CFSL) for
carrying out the examination of Mentat tablet in respect of any intoxicant

present in the tablet. Following are the CFSL comments:

1. Small plastic bottle labelled as Mentat were containing 23 blue colour
tablets

29


2.

Test of these tablets gave negative results for Barbilurates and Alkaloids.

1.16.4 ENGINES AND PROPELLERS EXAMINATION:

a)

ENGINE EXAMINATION ;
Both the engines type PT6A-42 having S.No. PC-E94102 and PC-E94100
which were installed on Super King Air B-200 aircraft VT-EOA were

stripped examined in the presence 6f Mr.Alex Hall, Lead Air Safety
Investigator, Pratt and Whitney , Canada manufacturers of the engines
at New Delhi. S/Shri J.8.Bhatnagar, Dy. Chief Engineer, BSE (Air wing),
New Delhi, Lalit Gupta and R.S.Passi, Assistant Directors Air Safety at
D.G.C.A. Hgrs. also associated in the investigation. The examination
report is at Exhibit No. 2. The findings made during strip examinations

of the engine is as follows -

Port Engine :

1. The engine had suffered heavy impact damage, particularly on its
underside.
2. The propeller shaft was severed aft of the propeller flange and the

reduction gearbox case was broken.

3, The exhaust case was creased and compressed by impact. The
right exhaust port was flattened rearwards and the left exhaust

port was extended outwards, twisted and flattened top to bottom.

4, The gas generator case exhibited distortion and torsional creas-

ing particularly aft of the engine mounting pads.

5. ° Disassembly of engine revealed severe impact damage throughout
the power turbines and drive train, The power turbine shaft was
severed between the No. 3 bearing and No. 3 bearing was severely
distressed. Nature of damage to power turbine shaft indicated

that it had broken under torsion.

30


The second stage power turbine rotor was damaged by contact
with the downstream exhaust duct and about 30% of the blades
were pushed rearward in their fixing. Blades were broken at
various spans and the remaining airfoil sections were found bent
against the direction of rotation due to contact with the upstream
stator vanes trailing edges which were as a result, also got

damaged.

The first stage power turbine stator had been pushed rearward
and contacted with the compressor turbine disk and the stator
inner drum was separated from its vanes which was removed by

hands.

The compressor turbine disk was heavily machined at the blade
root diameter due to contact with the first stage power turbine
stator, At blade root end, heavy machining, effect was observed
on a band of about 1/2 inch,

Starboard Engine :
Findings :

1.

The external damage to the engine due impact was of lesser
magnitude. The propeller shaft was severed aft of the propeller
flange. The reduction Searbox casing was fractured on top and
broken open on the bottom. Second stage power turbine rotor
blades were not having any damage. The shaft however, was

found seized.

First stage turbine stator baffle had machining marks and a

portion of the inter-stage baffle had come out,

Nut for the first Stage power turbine disk had smearing marks as

a result of interference with baffle.

Inner drum of the first Stage stalor housing had machining marks

at the circumference,

31

b)

5. Machining marks on the first stage power turbine blade root

leading edges due to interference with downstream stator.

6. The exhaust case found crushed, crampled and have about 45

degrees crease.

7. First stage compressor blades were found intact with no evidence
of Foreign Object Damage. However, some of the blades were
found bent against the direction of compressor rotation as a result

of inferference with the stators due to impact.
8. Oil pressure filter was found free from contaminants,

PROPELLER EXAMINATION :

Propellers and Servo Cylinder and Pistons for both the engines were

examined in the facilities of M/s Cama Aviation, Bombay, Shri D.Ghosh,
AME and Shri V.K.Chandna, Director of Air Safety conducted the
investigation. Both the propellers are of Hartzell make of Model HC-

B3TN-3N. The propellers and blades serial numbers are as follows:

LH. PROPELLER (SL. NO. BU-17132) :

No.1 No.2 No.3
Blades F-80697 80671 F-80670
SL No.
Clamps EL-6715 EL-6957 EL-6977
SI. No.

R.H.PROPELLER (SL. NO. BU-17182) :

No.1 No.2 No.3
Blades F-80690 F-80679 F-80678
Sl. No.
Clamps EL-7385 EL-7414 EL-7061
SL No.

Observation made on propellers assemblies and its associated servo

piston and cylinders assemblies are as follows:

32


L.H.PROPELLER :

i)

(ti)

PROPELLER ASSEMBLY :

Propeller hub broke off along with engine flange remaining con-

nected to it.

Only one blade remained attached to hub, while other two blades
detached with clamps giving way due to impact. Out of the two
detached blades one came out along with pilot tube while the
other blade detached with broken pilot tube. One blade is bent
rear ward (at a distance around midway of span from butt end).

The other detached blade curled back wards.

The depression marks on the Face of butt of the blades, the
pattern of fracture and the stretch/ compression in the butt end
portion of the blades indicate the blade pitch on the finer side

at the time of impact of blade with ground.

The comparative study was carried by comparing the blades
angles of new propellers on the fixture for assembling and

checking the blade angle.

CYLINDER AND PISTON ASSEMBLY Pt. No.C.3021 - 5) :
Piston ruptured at one place and heavily dented around 80 degree

from ruptured position. *

All link reds to blade clamps are bent. Piston is retracted (like in
feathered condition).
Base of cylinder though threaded but wrenched out due to impact

cylinder is bent in the bottom end on one side.

Al 3 low stop rods are bent (2 rods bent and 1 rod broken).
Guide Collar broken, Spring retainer broken. Pilot tube along
with spring bent.

Front nut was removed. Spring still jammed in position due to

bent cylinder. Piston was cut to take out cylinder.

33

.No specific observations could be made on the cylinder and inside

of piston.

R.H.PROPELLER :

(i) PROPELLER ASSEMBLY :
Propeller hub broke off along with engine flange remaining con-
nected to it.

Out of 3 blades 2 remained attached to hub with the clamps
intact but the blades rotated inside the clamps. One blade rotated
for about 40 degree while the other rotated for about 90 degree.
The blades are intact except for some bending near the tip end.
the third blade which got detached is bent almost 180 degree at
the midway of blade span. The pilot tube is broken.

The detached blade showed pull out marks on the clamps on the
butt end (3" long on cambered side starting 1/2" from L.E. and
on blade backside starting 1" away from L.E.)

The depression marks on face of butt of detached blade,
stretch/compression of the butt end position of blade indicate the
propeller blade pitch on the finer side at the time of impact.

Gi) CYLINDER AND PISTON ASSEMBLY :
TEE AND PISTON ASSEMBLY

Piston is intact. Two link rods are slightly bent but third one is
badly bent but they are attached. Guide collar is missing. ,

Low stop rods are bent and twisted and broken at the collar end.

Front nut from pilot tube retaining removed.
Spring assembly came out and bent with retainer housing.

Piston stuck at a position of about 1" extended out indicating
movement towards finer angles. The cylinder was pulled out

from the threaded portion of the hub and got bent on one side.

34


Following conclusion were drawn from engine and propeller
examination :

1. The port engine sustained heavy impact damage both externally
and internally. No anomalies which might have prevented normal
engine operation were perceived. Heavy machining of the
compressor turbine disk forward face (downstream) indicates that
the engine gas generator was operating at medium/high power
at the time of accident. The power turbine damage is indicative
of severe interference with other static engine components as a

result of ground impact and sudden propeller stoppage.

2. No anomalies which would prechide normal engine operation
were found on the starboard engine. Diagonal torsional creasing
of the gas generator case and machining of the forward. (
downstream) face of the compressor turbine disk are indicative

of engine power at the time of the accident.

3, At the time of initial impact the right propeller blades pitch was
on coarser side while the pitch on left propeller was on finer side.
Also the condition of the some of blades of both the propellers
and the fracture/damage pattern of related components are

indicative of power at the time of impact.

1.16.5 EXPLOSIVE EXAMINATION BY BOMB DETECTION AND DISPOSAL SQUAD,
BCAS :
Bomb Detection & Disposal Squad headed by Major T.V. Narayanan (Retd.)
carried out detailed inspection of aircraft and ‘site around the crash. The team
also visited BSF Hanger at Safdarjung Airport. Explosive sniffer dogs and latest
electronic explosive vapour detectors were used to sniff some of the doubtful
parts of the aircraft to ascertain presence of any explosives,

CONCLUSION :

a) Study of secondary metallic fragments for such as curled fragment,
curved fragments, fissured fragments, surface erosion, pitting, metal
disposition, reverse slant fractures which are distinct features of explosion
effects.

b) Study of disbursement of aircraft parts/fragments in and around the
scene of the crash.


1.16.6

c) Negative indication by explosive sniffer dogs about the traces of

explosives from the doubtful fragments collected from the scene.

d) Negative indication of presence of traces of explosives from fragment by

the latest electronic explosive vapour detectors.

e) Absence of any primary fragments of Bomb mechanism such as parts of

detonators, power sources, switches explosive containers ete.

f) Absence of any evidence of fragment/aircraft parts before the. touch

down of the aircraft (point of initial impact).

8) Absence of any craters and penetration of fragments in the soft wet

ground at the scene of crash.

Examination of parts of aircraft thrown in an around the scene of crash and
subsequently at BSF Hangers, study of fragment's structure, pattern and marks,
absence of any bomb mechanism such as explosives, power sources, detonators,
switches, the team is of the opinion that chemical explosion may not be cause
of crash of BSF Beechcraft, aircraft VT-EOA on 27 Aug.,92 near IGI Airport.

METALLURGICAL EXAMINATION REPORT OF FAILED ELIGHT CONTROL
CABLES AND PROPELLER ATTACHMENTS :

The failed flight control cables and propeller attachments of Super King Air B-
200 aircraft VT-EOA were sent to Research and Development Director of
D.G.C.A. for metallurgical examination to find the type of failure. The detailed

Report is as follows:

Metallurgical examination of the failed ends of most of wires of all the
strands showed necking and a cup & cane type of fractures indicating failure
under overload conditions. No worn and abraded areas were found at and
away from the failed ends of all the strands of the broken cables. There was
also no evidence of any progressive damage and corrosion. The fracture surface
of the failed propeller attachment showed a shining and fibrous fracture in
appearance having presence of equiaxed dimples indicating failure under

overload conditions. There was no presence of any progressive damage.

36

1.16.7

CONCLUSION ;

The flight control cables and the propeller attachment of BSF aircraft appears

to have failed under overload conditions.

SPECTRUM ANALYSIS REPORT OF NAL OF WORDS "GO AHEAD SIR" IN
THE ATC TAPE TRANSCRIPT OF ACCIDENT FLIGHT :
RS RR RENE OF ACCIDENT FLIGHT

The spectrum analysis of the words "Go ahead Sir" spoken at counter No. 275
and 397 contained in the ATC transcript of the accident flight was carried out
at NAL Bangalore. The report is at (Exhibit No. 3)

The observations made in the report are as follows :-

- Time taken of the words "Go ahead Sir" at both the counters is equal

to 0.5 sec.
- The sound intensity level are identical at both the counters.

- Duration of the word spoken "ahead" is more at counter No. 397 than

the duration of the same word at counter No, 275.

- Duration of the word " Sir" spoken at counter 275 is more than the

duration of the same word spoken at counter No. 397,

- The intensity of the word " Sir" js feeble at counter No. 397 compared

to the same word spoken at counter No. 375.

From the sound intensity pattern alone it can be concluded that the
utterances at counters No. 275 and 397 belong to the same person.
However to further Strengthen the observations, six pitch period

measurements were taken on the voice segments at both the counters,
- The pitch contours of both the time plots are identical.

- The variations in the pitch periods are within the prescribed limits set

for the pitch period variations associated with a person ( 1 milli sec.)

37


The LPC spectrum of the part of the word " go" in the two time plots

exactly match

From the above observations made it is concluded that the words

spoken " go ahead sir" at counter No. 275 and 397 belong to the same

person Late Capt. Dhaliwal.

1.17) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION :
1.17.1 SALIENT OBSERVATIONS MADE BY DOCTORS :

a)

Dr. Wg. Cdr Bhalla (Aviation Medical Specialist JAF)

Dr. Bhalla in addition to his own agreement he had been looking after
the duties of ADG Medical Services Civil Aviation on Wy. Cdr. Gupta
was on leave on the date of accident he was requested to associate with
the autopsy of Late Capt. Dhaliwal which was done by Dr. Chaubey at
Safdarjung Hospital. Dr. Bhalla made following observations when

question by the committee.

Tam an aviation medical specialist and in addition to my normal
responsibilities towards India Air Force have been looking after the task
of ADG Medical Services, Civil Aviation during his absence. On
27.8.1992, at 1430 hrs. I was informed that a message has been received
from DGCA that there has been an air crash at Palam airport and I was
required to assist. I got in touch with the office of Director of Air Safety,
DGCA Hoars. and was told that Asstt. Director (Air Safety) will be
coming to pick me up and take ime to the accident site. ] accompanied
him to the site of accident where I saw the site of accident and learnt
that the body of the diseased pilot had been removed by the doctor
from IAAI and had been taken to Safdarjung hospital for autopsy and

I was required to go to Safdarjung to assist the autopsy.

At Safdarjung hospital I first saw the body lying in a mangled state
outside the autopsy room. The Forensic medicine specialist at Safdarjung
hospital was called and requested to set the body in a shape so that
some photograph could be taken. The photographer was arranged and

photographs were taken.

38


Prior to the start of autopsy, it was felt desirable that some history of
the accident was made available. However except for hear say accounts
by some BSF officers and a sketchy note from SHO Palam nothing, else
was available. It was requested that it would be better if we could talk
to Capt. Jha who was the co-pilot to the diseased in the sortie
immediately preceding the fatal one. However, Capt. Jha was not
available.

The findings at autopsy were duly recorded in the post mortem report.
Certain special specimen (in addition to those normally collected) by the
forensic specialist) were collected at my behest. namely plain muscle,
tissue, heart, pieces of brain, blood mixed with urine and water from

the pelvis and piece of lip muscle.

The BSF officers and Doctors present at the site were requested lo
arrange for air lift of the samples to the Institute of aero special
medicine, Bangalore for specific aviation related studies, They were
informed that they could do so by using the good offices of DGCA or
in any other way suitable to them. The samples were handed over to the
local police and before being transport to IAM they had to be taken
charge of from the police. The police was informed of the requirement

and they have agreed to do so.

The BSF officers present at the site were also requested to arrange if
possible a visit for the forensic Specialist and self to Palam airport to see
the cockpit of the aircraft similar to the one which had crashed. This
was necessary to correlate the injuries patterns with the aircraft structure.
I later learnt that the only tissue specimen to reach IAM Bangalore was
the heart tissue. BSF could not organise a visit to Palam to enable us to
see the aircraft of the type desired. The required visit was finally

proposed by the Committee of Inquiry about a week back,

It was also impressed by all concerned that the specimens were required
to be kept refrigerated or stored in a flask full of ice and salt mixture

ull such time as they reached IAM. This requirement | understood could

39

not be met as neither the Police nor concerned authorities are geared up

for the same.

QUESTIONS RAISED BY THE COMMITTEE AND ANSWERS THERE OF :

Q.1.

A.

Q.2.

A.

Q.3.

It is correct that you were representing Civil Aviation during the
autopsy?
Yes.

What guideline of Civil Aviation you had followed?

T had no guideline to follow.

You must be aware the guidelines of the Air Force for the air crashes
used.
Yes.

Do you consider that the checks carried out during the autopsy and the
samples taken are complete in all respects as per the laid down
guidelines?

The special samples which could have contributed to finding the cause
of accident were collected by the Forensic Medical specialists att my

request besides the specimen which he was supposed to collect routinely.

Why it was not considered fit to take the viscera sample?

Tam not aware that the viscera sample was not collected.

Samples of the contents in the stomach?
The stomach was examined autopsy. It was found to be empty except

for some bilious liquid. Thereafter, it was of no special interest to me.

What are your comments on the pattern of injuries on the head?

It appears that Capt. Dhaliwal’s face had been split into 2 portions as
if it had been chopped by a knife. There were two lacerations through
the skin of the lower lip. These injuries could have risen from mark of
sharp object in the cockpit or frame of the aircraft. Thereafter the bones
had multiple fractures which could be attributable to the multiple crash

forces,

40


Q.9.

Q.10

Q.11

Q.11

Was there any evidence for the gun shot?
That there could be a gun shot injury. However, on final analysis
especially the neat splitting of the facial bone into two make me feel

that it was not a gun shot injury.

Was any requirement/ observation laid by the BSF Doctor?
No. There was no requirement from the BSE Doctor. It is only we

requested him to provide the necessary storage condition if possible.

Did you requirement met into by them?
The BSF doctors and even the administrative people like Shri H. Rao
were requested for arrangement for preservation/ transportation for

which the agreed to do.

Why the full heart was not sent to [AM/

I want to make it clear that authority for conducting the post mortem
examination is with the Forensic specialist alone. My presence at the post
mortem was in the advisory capacity and not covered by ‘any authority
from any one whatsoever. Regarding hear, the FM specialist felt that he
would like to go into sections, examine the coronary arteries for patency
and sent the suspect tissue for examination. The right side of the heart
was ruptured. and nothing could be salvaged from that part. The other
coronaries were examined and the portion which appeared to be narrow
was targeted for microscopic laboratory examination. The other portions

were obviously patent.

Please have a look on the report of IAM on the piece of the heart sent.
Taking this report and the examination of heart at the time of autopsy,
what are your comments on the functioning of the heart at the time of
accident?

The lumen of the coronaries examined with the microscopic eye was
patent. The segment which appeared narrow has been examined at IAM
and the report suggests that pathology leading to severe inflammation
could not have been in this segment also. As such the. possibility of

cardiac arrest leading to death can be safely ruled out.

41


Q.12
A.

Q.13

Q.14

Q.15

0.16

What you think could be effect of the Himalaya drug (mentat) which
was found the clothing of the diseased?

Tam not well conversant with the effects of this medicine.

In your opinion were all actions taken correctly on medical angle in

such a case of air crash?

1. The body should not have been removed from the site of accident.

2. If the removal was must, the clear photographs should have been
taken before removal.

3. The investigating team should have been clearly identified and
worked out in co-ordination right from survey of the wreckage to
completion of the investigation,

4. All facilities required for. an investigation like meeting eye
witnesses, examining air of like nature and proper authorities
for conducting all the investigation,

5. Facilities for proper refrigeration of samples and cold chain of

transmission til] they reach the laboratory.

What is your experience in aviation autopsy?

It is my first autopsy in this nature.

In you opinion do you think that Capt. Dhaliwal strapped up in the
cockpit at the time of accident?

it appears that he was not wearing the harness.

When you had expressed the requirement of refrigeration / transpiration
by air of the viscera to BSF and local police but they had at any stage
shown inability to do se?

BSF had expressed their inability to take the viscera to Bangalore by
Air, They were apprised that they could approach DGCA to arrange for
the same. DGCA was personally apprised of this requirement also.
DGCA had posted Mt.Khola to arrange the transpiration for the samples
to Bangalore, :

Q.17

A.

Q.18

Q.19

b)

Why oily heart Sample was sent? In your opinion was it necessary to
Sent to other items of viscera preserved during the autopsy?

Thad requested Dr. Choubey that all the aviation specific items collected
by us to be sent to IAM. The Forensic Medical Specialist had reservations
On this because the investigation procedure as laid down by law require

that he sent this Specimen to Forensic laboratory,

Is there any way to finding out. the pilot was in his sense at the time
of crash?
We can say that we was alive at the time of crash but whether he had

control over his sense cannot be said.

What are the improvements you think could be made while providing
medical cover to crash victims?

A definite procedure should be there to be followed by doctors of all
airport authorities and it is advisable that Airport authority and agencies
Operating aircraft services should have post. graduate (MD) qualified
aviation medicine Specialists on its strength.

Dr. G.C. Choube
On 27 Aug.1992 | conducted post mortem on the body of Trilok Singh
Dhaliwal, Age-52 years IG BSE Air Wing, Delhi. The body and the
inquest papers were brought by Nanak Chand, Sub Inspr. Police Station
Mahipalpur on 27.8,92 at 330 PM.

Forensic Medicine Specialist :

There was a alleged history of Air crash on 27.8.92 at 12 noon died on
the spot. My detailed report is already handed over the police which is
in my hand writing and bears my signature. The photostat copy of the
Teport is already here with the Court of Inquiry.

Tam doing Forensic Medicine from June 1982. T am in Safdarjung
Hospital as Specialist in Forensic Medicine Nov.89. This was my first
case of Air Crash. The body was grossly mutilated and mingled. He
was wearing a shirt, a banyan, underwear and pant with belt and socks,
There were blood stained. On search of pocket of trouser three identity
cards were recovered and also a pack unsealed mentat tablet were
recovered,

43

Cause of death was due to blast injury of head and crush injury of
chest and abdomen, along with multiple injuries mentioned in the post

mortem report.

During autopsy examination Dr. Bhalla from Air Force and Dr. KK.
Banerjee, Dy. Director (Medical) were present.

CROSS EXAMINATION BY THE COURT’:
SE RENE EION BY THE COURT

Q.

A.

ie)

Dr. Choubey will you please tell us that how many autopsy you have
carried out till date?

Approx. I must have conducted 6 to 8 thousand autopsies.

What internal organs do you preserve for finding out the toxic elements
in the stomach?

We preserve following:-

Stomach, part of small intestine, a piece of liver and half of each kidney

and a sainple of blood.

Did you preserve these specimens in case of Dhaliwal?

Normally the viscera is preserved on the request of investigating
authorities or when the cause of death is not apparent on conduction of
post mortem examination. In this case both the things were absence,
however, suitable tissues and organs were preserved to analyses the toxic

element.

There was a wide spread crash injury to the abdomen and there were
lot of blood and water present in perennial cavity so not much purpose

would have been served by following the routine viscera preservation.

Since Capt.Dhaliwal containing mentat tablet was recovered from a
person of the deceased pilot, did you not think it necessary to preserve
the viscera. Moreover in this particular case it is not only necessary to
find out the cause of death but it was equally important to find out the
actual physical and mental condition of deceased just before he died.

I did not think it fit to preserve routine viscera but selectively we did

preserve the tissues and kidney and brain tissue and blood sample and

44


inter costal muscle to get the analysis Specially for the narcotic drugs.
This selective preservation in my opinion would have been better than
preserving the whole mingled mass of ‘viscera which was also

contaminated,

Is it correct that you did not accept the Suggestion of Dr. Bhalla,
(Aviation Med. Expert from Air Force) to send these samples of tissues
for detailed examination and analyses to IAM Bangalore as you wanted
to send these samples to FSL?

There is no question of my accepting or rejecting his request because we
preserve the relevant things and hand over it to investigating authorities,
Now it is upto them where they get the analysis done. We only request
the investigating authorities to get the chemical analysis done. Further
more there had there been any request it should have been made to

investigating authorities which in the present case was Delhi Police.

In the PM report submitted by you, you have given the cause of death
as blast injury of head. Did you suspect any fire arm injury or did you
mean this injury to be caused by some other ?

I did not suspect any fire arm injury, the term blast is being used for
the sudden impact of any force blunt in nature. In this case it seems
some blunt object has hit the head in the area of face in nud line

extending from root of nose to vertex.

After visiting Palam and having a look of a similar aircraft from the
inside what is your opinion could have cause that injury?
It is difficult for me to comment exactly but it is more likely that head

might have hit the window angle.

On the basis of information available to you from the post mortem
examination is it possible for you to comment on the alertness of the
deceased Pilot immediately before he died?

It is not medically possible to comment on the alertness in such a case.

What is the difference between conducting a post mortem of an Air

Crew died in air accident to that of other unnatural death cases? Are

45


there any guidelines provided by the DGCA to this effect?

For practical purposes there is no difference in conducting the post
mortem examination, in cases of air crash death of air crews and other
un natural deaths. I have not received any DGCA guidelines regarding

deaths in air crash by DGCA or any other government bodies.

As per Dr. Bhalla’s statement he wanted all the preserve tissue to be
sent to [AM Bangalore whereas only a portion of the heart was sent?
Whose decision this?

I am unaware who sent the heart to IAM Bangalore because it is for
investigating authorities to get the analysis done from his specified

laboratories.

It was observed by the committee that special specimens were kept at
the police station Mahipalpur under ambient conditions and not under
refrigerated conditions? Did you apprise to Police Authorities of the
requirement of refrigeration and did they express their inability to do
So.

After handing over the tissues or viscera to the investigating authorities
it is the responsibilities of the investigating authorities to get the analyses
done. Neither I was aware of such a circumstances nor I was informed

by the Police authorities of such a situation.

The special specimen were kept in the Police Station under ambient
condition for over two months? In you opinion will they serve any
purpose if send for analyses at this stage?

There is very small percentage of chance that analyses will prove fruitful

nevertheless attempt should be made.

After going through IAM report can you ruled out the possibility of
Heart Attach?
After going through the report Tam quite convinced that he did not

have any heat attack before death.

STATEMENT OF DR. G.K.CHOUBEY :
See AP KR. GK. CHOUBEY

For chemical] examination all the internal organs are preserved in saturated

46

solution of common salt and blood is preserved as such in this case also
kidney, brain were Preserved in saturated solution of common salt. Blood was
preserved without any preservative. Addition of Solution of salt to the blood
will vitiate the findings. The Preservative for the blood is used only when there
are special requirements and the case deserves the same. When the case is not
clear about its circumstances it will better not to add any preservative to the
blood. After seeing the CFSI, teport IT am of the opinion the deceased was not
under the influence of liquor because the brain tissue and Kidney tissue came
negative result for alcohol. The presence of ethyl alcohol in blood is because
Of petrifaction. In case the preservatives are used for the viscera refrigeration
are not required approximately 3 to 4 months. Police were not told to keep
the blood in the sub zero condition as the presumption is that they are
Supposed to hand over the CFSL same day. It is not possible to detect the case
of heart failure due to cardiac arrythmia, low blood Pressure, low blood sugar
by carrying out the Postinortem. By carrying out postmortem one can detect
coronary disease. There are 10% of cases were cause of death cannot be
ascertained even after carrying out detailed postmortem examination. General
"black out" is caused by cardiac arrythmia, low blood pressure, low blood
Sugar and also certain forms of epilepsy. All these diseases can not be detected
by carrying out postmortem examination. If the blood Sample was preserved
under refrigerated conditions al] along it would have been possible to

determine the blood Sugar lever at a later date.

STATEMENT OF DOCTOR R, -AGNIHOTRI, CHIEF MEDICAL
(AYURVEDIC HOSPITAL) :

Tam Post Graduate in Ayurvedic having approximately 35 years experience

OFFICER

(Clinical) regarding the mentat tablets of Himalaya Drug Company as per |
know the composition is;

Brahmi, Vacha, Shankha Pushpi, and Jatta Mansi and other similar ingredients
in smaller percentage. These tablets are normally prescribed for enhancing the

mental faculties and for calming down frayed nerves, This has the effect of a

not impair the routine activities of a human being but an over dose ‘may
cause drowsiness. This drug is not considered to be habit forming. Sudden
" stoppage of its use does not produce any withdrawal symptoms. This drug can
be taken either on empty stomach or after meals. There are no contra
indications. this medicine reduces the blood pressure Hf taken in excess. |
categorise excess dosage as consuming more than six.tablets at a time. If excess

dosage is taken its manifestation will be seen after about three hours.

CFSL FINDINGS :

In connections with case No.DD No.10. dt. 27.892 eight sealed parcels were
received in the Laboratory on 24th November’92 from Police Station
Mahipalpur from SHO. There were some queries with respect to nature of
investigation required. There were queries with the respect to Alcohol presence
about kidney, brain tissue and blood sample. There were also queries
regarding intoxicates in brain and kidney. There were also query with the
respect of intoxicates in mentat tablets. Now with the respect to result of the
analysis after chemical analysis:-

i. Brain and kidney gave negative tests for ethyl alcohol and common
intoxicated substances like barbiturate and alkaloids.

ii. No opinion is offered about the contents of mentat tablets as they are
said to be of herbal preparations.

iii. The blood samples gave positive tests for ethyl! alcohol. In case in blood
when purification has occurred are must exercise extreme caution in
interpreting alcohol levels obtained by the analysis of putrid samples.
this is due to the fact that alcohol may be lost or produced by bacterial
action during the putrefactive process. If the blood sample is preserved
by addition of sodium fluoride this will prevent loss of alcohol and
production of alcohol as the result of bacterial action. Since alcoho] at
equilibrium should have been found in brain and it has been found
negative in brain, it could have been found in blood due to putretaction
if it has not been preserved.

Q.1 Where the preservation of the viscera samples was adequate?
A. Along with the exhibits which were sent to the laboratory there was no
documents along with them whether they were preserved or not. Hence

no definite conclusion can be given for this question.

48


1.17.2

Q.2 Is there any possibility of the correct analysis not coming out if the
Samples are not preserved properly?

A. If samples are not properly preserved the correct results quite possible
may not be available,

Q.3. What is a maximum period sample can be kept at ambient condition for
correct analysis?

A. This will depend upon the Nature of the poison to be detected.

Q4. In this particular case what is the period as per you ?

A. In case of proper preservation and standard conditions of keeping the
samples before analysis are maintained the quality of analysis will
improve.

Q.5 As per you what is the idle condition of preservation os Samples?

A, In my opinion were samples cannot be taken for analysis inmediately,
They must be stored in cold storage where temperature is below zero,

Q.6. In the instant case since the samples had not been kept under sub zero
conditions do you think the result of your analysis is not correct?

A. If the samples have been preserved under sub zero conditions the results
would not have been different qualitatively but for the sample of blood
which had purified.

Training and Checks for the BSF Pilots :

The Commercial Aviation organisations engaged in passenger carrying do give
technical / performance refresher courses at regular intervals to their pilots to
maintain the high standard of pilot proficiency. At present the BSF pilots are
not given any such refresher course. In view of the fact that the BSF pilots
catty out the VIP duties, they also should undergo such refresher courses,
Although BSF has been categorised as a private Operator, and under the pre-
vailing rules it is not mandatory on the part of BSF to conduct refreshers for
the pilots, but as pointed out above such courses will maintain the high level
Of proficiency of the BSF pilots in case these are regularly carried out.

Secondly at present, no procedures are laid down by DGCA for providing
training and cheeks for BSF pilots holding ALTP licence if there is long break
in their flying. Instructions exist only for commercial Operators. It is desired
that DGCA should lay down such instructions for non-commercial operators
as well to ensure proficiency of pilots is ensured before they operate a flight.

49


1.17.3

1.17.4

1.17.5

Crew Requirement for Twin Engined Aircraft :

At present, the ICAO guidelines on the crew requirements for the aircraft
operations require only one pilot for the aircraft below 5700 Kgs maximum
Al-up-weight. Super King Air is certified as single pilot operation. However,
keeping in view that this aircraft is normally used for VIP flights, two pilot

operation for all twin engined aircraft needs serious consideration.

Trainin

and Refresher for Airport Medical Officer/ Ambulance Attendants :

It has revealed that Airport Medical Officers of the TAAI have not been
imparted taining on the aviation medicine aspect. If such a training is
imparted to the doctors posted at the airport, it can expose them to the
requirements of the medical standards of the aviation personnel and the aspects
to be looked for in case of air crashes. The Ambulance Attendants do not
undergo any refreshers which if given shall ensure their proficiency all the

time.

Annual Medical Checks of the BSF Officials Pre-flight Examination of the Crew
and Flight Duty Time Limitations for the Crew :

As per the practice followed by the BSF, All the Officials undergo medical

examination annually. Late Capt. Dhaliwal had undergone the medical in 1990
and after that he had not undergone the annual medical as revealed by his
medical records. This medical check up is an internal requirement and the
medical check up for the licence renewal is done in a different manner. As
per this medical for licence renewal, he was found fit. At present no practice
is existing in BSF for carrying out the pre-flight medical of crew. The pre-
flight medical examination ensures that pilot is in good health condition to

operate the flight.

Recently, the DGCA has come out with Aeronautical Information Circular No.
28 of 1992 on Flight Duty Time Limitation which encompasses all the crew
members engaged in different operations and is applicable to BSE crew
members also. The compliance of this Circular shall ensure that the fatigue

due to flying duties is Kept in limits.


1.17.6 Aircraft Maintenance Personnel of BSE :
ee enhance Personnel of BSE

1.17.7

The Border Security Force holds one Super King aircraft, five Avro aircraft and
one Chetak helicopter. To maintain this fleet of aircraft, the BSF has got a
Sanctioned strength of one Chief Engineer, four Dy. Chief Engineers, five Sr.
Aircraft Maintenance Engineers, eight Jr. Aircraft Maintenance Engineers and
eight Aircraft: Mechanics, In addition they have got two Aircraft Radio
Maintenance Engineers and two Radio Mechanics. At present, they have got
one Dy. Chief Engineer, One Jy. Aircraft maintenance Engineer, 35 Aircraft

Mechanics and four Radio Mechanics,

BSF Air Wing Security Arrangements :

Security Officer (Air Wing) BSE, Shri Dinesh Singh, Asstt. Comdt, — was
interrogated by the Committee of Inquiry. He has stated that the security staff
of BSF (Air Wing) Security staff has 3 Inspectors, 1 Naik and 12 constables
who carry out hanger security and personnel security. On the night intervening
26th/ 27th August,92, the aircraft was parked inside the BSF hanger at Palam
and its doors were locked and keys were retained by sentry on duty. A
register is maintained by the Sentry. Before drawing the keys, the name of the
person drawing the keys is entered in the register, Sh Dinesh Singh further
intimated that on the night intervening 26/27th August,92 nobody had entered
the hanger. In the morming of 27th August 92 Shri R.Ramesh, Jr. Aircraft
Technician had withdrawn keys for carrying out pre-flight inspection and
refuelling of the aircraft as the aircraft was detailed for Operating flight from
Delhi to Leh to escort D.G,, ITBP from Leh to Delhi.

Shri Dinesh Singh informed that when the aircraft was parked at Bay No. 22
for inspection and refuelling, one guard was kept at the hanger on Bay No.21
and one guard was posted to Bay No.22. Before the flight the baggage of the
passengers is got identified. The baggage is again checked near the aircraft
before these are pul inside the aircraft. Their security staff is equipped 10
Hand Held metal detectors for this purpose. Personnel of para-military
organisations are identified with the help of their Identity cards. In case of
Passengers travelling with VVIPS, the identification of passengers is done with

the help of personal staff of VVIP,

51

After refuelling and inspection by the AME, Inspector Baljeet Singh of BSF Air
Wing checked the aircraft before it left for Leh carrying following crew.

1 Shri A.K Jha, Pilot-in-command

2. Shri Suresh Beri, A.D. (Air Ops.)

3. Shri M. Nair, ARME

4 Shri Kamaljit Singh, Niak (Cabin, Crew)

Shri Dinesh Singh further informed the Committee of Inquiry that from his
long association with the Air wing, he could categorically say that both at
Delhi and Leh no outsider had entered the aircraft except the VIP passenger
at Leh. On return from Leh he himself was present at Palam and no outsider
had entered the aircraft. At Delhi technician Shri B.N.Shukla of BSF entered the
aircraft to check the quantity of fuel on board the aircraft, before it was

released for local circuits and landings.

The aircraft carried out first two local circuits/landings with Late Capt.
Dhaliwal as pilot-in-command and Shri A.K Jha as co-pilot. After two sorties,
before the aircraft took off for the 3rd sortie and none else had access to the
aircraft. Only Capt. Jha was dropped out by Capt. Dhaliwal before take off for
the final eventful third sortie. No malfunctioning of aircraft controls and
engines was reported during or prior to the eventful sorue or in the earlier
flying of the day. From examination of aircraft wreckage no signatures of

sabotage with aircraft or engines were observed.

Shri Dinesh Singh has stated that there should be more man power to have an
effective watch over the BSf properties including aircraft at the Palam airport,
This stated deficiency of man power, however, needs evaluation by the BSF

authorities.

52

2.1
2.1.1

ANALYSIS :

WAS THE AIRCRAFT FULLY SERVICEABLE PRIOR ‘LO IMPACT?
MAINTENANCE RECORDS :

The involved aircraft King Air B-200C VT-EOA was issued with initial

Certificate of Airworthiness in August87 after the aircraft: was subjected to

schedules approved by the D.G.C.A. As per the maintenance records and the
relevant documents since the introduction of the aircraft in the BSF no major
defect effecting the airworthiness of the aircraft was reported. All the test
flights since the issue of initial Certificate of Airworthiness till the issue of
last Certificate of Airworthiness were carried out by late Capt. T.S.Dhaliwal and
no abnormality of any nature including flying characteristics of the aircraft
and/or the performance of the engine were reported. Perusal of maintenance
records reveal that all the related mandatory Service Bulletins Issued by the
manufacturer and the modifications were complied with and the aircraft was
being maintained strictly following the D.G.C.A. approved schedules. The
maintenance records also reveal that since the induction of the aircraft in
service, no abnormal snags were reported which could have jeopardized the

safe operation of the aircraft.

Aircraft had the valid flight release certificate. On the date of accident before
Operating the flight to Leh daily inspection was carried out and the aircraft
was declared serviceable. Aircraft operated the Leh flight normally without any

problem on any of the aircraft systems and engines.

Aircraft was accepted for the circuits and landing by late Capt. Dhaliwal
without any observation on the aircraft serviceability. Two circuits were
completed satisfactorily and during the last circuit though some sound was
reported on the door by late Capt. Dhaliwal but saine was not confirmed by

Capt. Jha who was disembarked from the aircraft.

WRECKAGE EXAMINATION -:
.
a) AIRCRAFT ATTITUDE SPEED AND ITS STRUCTURE
rn ee NE

DISINTEGRATION :

After take off from Tunway 28 the aircraft was seen turning for down

wind leg, and after that it was observed steadily going down. The tell-

tale marks on the ground near and at the accident site indicate that

53

before the aircraft finally impacted the Bround it was a rather in a

Steeper attitude,

The ground marks at the initial impact point are indicative that the
aircraft suffered Major impact loads OR first impact itself. The main
wreckage was in a ditch havitig water at a distance of about 350 ft from
the initial impact point. In between the main wreckage and the initial
impact point there was no ground mark. No presence of any ground
mark within the approximate distance of 350 ft. indicates that the initial
impact was so high the aircraft bounced up in the air and travelled for
such a distance with its residual forward MoMentunt betore again hilting
the ground. This, also Suggests that the Speed of the aircraft at the time
of initial impact was very high. One of the air speed indicator needle
was found stuck at 210 kts due to impact which corroborates the

possibilities of aircraft hitting the ground on its nose with high speed.

The main structure Of the aircraft was found completely crushed and the
tail portion found loosely attached with the main Structure lying in
inverted portion, After the initial impact point, throughout on both the
sides of the flight path, the aircraft components/ parts were found lying
scattered. No components or any of the aircraft Part was found before
the initial impact point, The above Suggest that the disintegration of the
aircraft started after the initial impact only and there was No inflight

structure failure,

b) INITIATION OF FIRE :
Port wing had suffered fire damage on the outboard side near the
leading edge. Integral fuel tanks and the flexible tanks were completely
consumed by fire.Comparatively fire on stbd. wing was less, although
the auxiliary fuel tank was burnt. Starboard main landing gear also
suffered fire damage. Fire pattern on the wreckage indicated a fire

Srowth on the ground only.

No evidence, such as Soot and streak marks or any other such evidence
was available on the wreckage which could “uggest the evidence of

inflight fire. The main fire effected part of the aircraft was port wing.

54

eee

Prior to initial impact the tall bushes which were cut but by the wings
did not have any fire evidence. The evidence of fire on small bushes
Started at about 50 ft. away after initia] impact point. Ali the fire
evidence on the bushes were on the port side only. As per the
statements of the witnesses, those who were Present near the site of
accident have seen the aircraft coming down and hitting the ground,
the fire started only after the aircraft had hit the Stound with high

impact sound. ‘Thus it can be concluded that the fire started initially on

the aircraft after it hit the ground.

PRIMARY ELYING CONTROL; AND LANDING GEARS :

Both port and starboard elevators were found connected with the
hinges and the elevator movements were found to be in order.
Both starboard and port elevator tabs were moving Properly and
the elevator servo cables were found attached with main cables,
Both attachment points of the bel] crank with cable were intact
and the link rod was also found attached with column assembly.
The convol cables were also intact except that pulley and at-
tachinent bracket Over which the cables Tun were damaged due

to impact loads,

There was no apparent damage to the rudder and rudder tab. All
the control cables including the rudey Servo cables were intact and
attached with the Systems. Both the pneumatic rudder servos were

intact and were attached with the Primary rudder boost system,

All the components of port aileron control system in the cockpit
were badly damaged and were found Separated from each other.
The chain was attached at both the ends. Cable joints to the
central contro] quadrant were fully secured. However the cable
was badly damaged. The cable joints with the quadrant servo of
the starboard aileron were found fully secured though these were
badly damaged and broken. However it was possible to move the
link rod by Operating the cables,

55

iii)

The cables which were found frayed and broken were examined
in R&D Laboratory of DGCA (Exhibit No. 1) All the fractures

were overload fractures as a result of impact loads,

All the above observations suggest that the primary flying controls
had no preimpact failure which could have contributed to. the

loss of aircraft control,

FLAPS :
Port side inboard and outboard flaps were badly damaged,

Though the flexible drive from gear box to inboard flap was
found detached from the gear box end, but it was Intact. The
inboard and outboard flaps actuator extension position when
measured was found to be close to the 40 percent: position. The
Starboard side inboard and outboard flaps were also badly
damaged ‘but the flexible drive shaft was detached from both the
ends i.e. actuator end as well as gear box end. The actuator
extension position also indicated the flap selection in 40 percent.
Forty percent flap selection could be in take off or the approach
phase.

LANDING GEARS :

All the three landing gears were found detached from the main
structure in the down and locked position, However both the
torque knees for the main landing gears were found sheared off
at the eye end. It can be concluded that aircraft Impacted the

ground with undercarriage down and locked,

ENGINES :

Both the engines were found in the main wreckage and were
lying detached from the aircraft. The damage was particularly on
the front and on the underside of engines. ‘Phe propellers: were
separated from the engines. The propeller shaft was found sheared
just aft of the propeller mounting flanges. The crushing damage
to the port side engine was more compared to the starboard side
of the engine. The reduction gear box on both the engines were
detached from its bottom attachment.

56

After retrieval of beth the engines a detailed examination was
carried out at Safdarjung Airport in BSF hangar by Mr. Alex Hall,
a technical expert of M/S. Pratt and Whitney, the manufacturer
of the engine. DGCA officers also associated in the investigations.

The report is placed in Exhibit, No. 2.

During detailed investigation, the condition of the engines and of
the fuel control system precluded functional testing. No
abnormalities and/or anomalies which could have prevented

normal operation of the involved engines were noled,

The damage to the exterior and interior of the port engine was
suggestive of a very severe impact at an operating condition of
moderate to high power. Impact forces on the starboard engine
appear to have been considerably less and as a result the rear-
ward axial deformation of the engine structural casing was also
reduced. However the diagonal creasing of the major structural
casing was quite evident. The rearward axial deformation of the
Static structural casing pushed the first stage power turbine stator
baffle into contact with the compressor turbine. As a result the
baffle was machined /trepanned completely through its centre and
the compressor turbine disc exhibited corresponding machining
marks at its hub and fir tree diameter. The torsional creasing of
the major structural casing together with the machining of the
compressor turbine disk and the first slage power turbine stator
baffle it may be concluded that at least moderate power was in

use at the time of the accident on the starboard engine.

Scrutiny of the maintenance records reveals that the involved
engines had done 1347 hrs. and 24 mts. since new and 157 hrs.and
29 mts since last C of A. Both the engines were maintained
following DGCA approved schedules. Since the induction of the
aircraft in Operation no malfunction was reported relating to the

performance of the engines till the date of accident.

57


v)

PROPELLERS :

Both the propellers were found separated from the engines and

got heavily damaged due to the impact. Both the propellers were
sheared off from their engines along with the flanges. Out of the
three blades of the starboard propeller assembly two blades
remained attached with the hub and were free to rotate inside the
clamp. The third blade which got detached was bent rearward
almost at 180 degrees at the midway of blade span. Whereas the
port side propeller had only one blade attached to hub and the
remaining two blades were found detached. Out of the two
detached blades, one blade was found bent rearward ata distance
around uidway of the span and the other one was curled

backward.

Both the propeller servo assemblies and the propeller blades were
subject to examination at the overhauling facilities of M/S. Cama
Aviation, Bombay (Report at Exhibit No. 2). As per the
investigation report, though at the time of initial impact the
starboard propeller blades pitch setting was on coarser side and
the pitch setting of port propeller blades were on finer side, the
condition of both the propeller blades and the fracture / damage
pattern of related components were indicative of "power" at the

time of initial impact.

The scrutiny of the maintenance records of the propellers indicated
that the involved propellers had done 1347 hrs. and 24 mts. since
new and 157 hrs. and 29 mts. since issue of Last C of A. No

defect was reported on propellers since then.

Hence taking into account the engine examination which sug-
gested that both the engines were operating with power and the
results of the propeller investigation it can be concluded that at
the time of impact both the engines were running with sufficient
pewer and there was no engine malfunction or loss of power

which could have contributed to the accident.


2.2

CONCLUSION :

Taking into consideration the above derivatives the committee is of the view
that aircraft had no malfunctions on its flying controls, engines and the other
related systems which could have contributed directly and indireetly to the
accident. It is considered that Late Capt. Dhaliwal probably continued to fy
with take off flaps, and undercarriage down, keeping in view of a short circuit
which is a normal feature of such circuils. Further had the pilot experienced
any malfunction and if he was forced fo land, he would have comununicated
to the tower and tried to land in the airfield being very close to i(around 2.7
kin. south), however the same was not done. Even if the pilot was forced to
land, in the down wind area, he would have landed with undercarriage
retracted in the disused area to avoid damage but the same was however not

done. Thus the circumstantial evidence also rules out any possibility of aircraft

malfunction prior to crash.

WAS IT A SABOTAGE?

The enquiry committee closely examined the possibility of sabotage leading to
the crash of BSF aircraft B-200 (Super King Air) VI-ROA on August 27, 1992
resulting in the death of T.S. Dhaliwal, Director (Air), BSF Air Wing. The
following points emerged after carefully analysing the oral and documentary

evidences collected during the enquiry relevant to this aspect-

1. The medical experts who handled the dead body after the accident and

were also connected with the post-mortem opined that the injuries

sustained by the deceased were not caused either by fire arms or
explosives. The nature of injuries was similar to those sustained in a
normal air crash. This view was also supported by the Police Officer

who performed the inquest on the dead body.

2. According to a number of eye witnesses including those present in the

Air Traffic Control Tower at the time of crash and those working near

the crash site, no smoke was noticed coming out of the ill fated aircraft
while in the air. There was no disintegration of the plane either and

almost the entire wreckage of the plane was confined to a small area
completely ruling out the possibility of a midair explosion. No body saw

any missile hitting the aircraft and examination of the wreckage did not

59


reveal any bullet hole etc. There is enough evidence to indicate that the
aircraft and its fuel tank was absolutely infact when it reached the

ground and disintegration of the aircraft took place afterwards.

The eye-witnesses did not notice any abnormality either at the time of
take off or while in the air. Even when it was loosing height its wings
were level and the dive was steady though the dive angle was more
steep. The eyewitnesses also heard ‘the sound of the engine and saw the

propellers rotating.

Maj. T.V Narayanan, Officer incharge of Bomb Detection Disposal Squad,
BCAS carried out detailed inspection of the crash site and debris of the
ill fated aircraft. The team used explosive sniffer dogs and electronic
explosive vapour detectors to check the presence of explosives during
their investigation. However, no such presence of explosives was detected
and the team concluded that the disintegration of the aircraft was due

to structural failure associated with the crash and no by explosive device.

No extremist/lerrorist groups active in| Kashmir, Punjab, North-East or
in the South claimed the responsibility for this crash. There is no
evidence to link the activities of insurgent/extremist groups active in the
country, with this crash. Further there are no reports to indicate the
presence or movement of such groups near Palam area during July-
August,1992.

The question of someone tampering with the aircraft or indulging in
deliberate mischief to cause this crash was also examined and the

following points were taken into consideration:-

a) Capt. Dhaliwal’s plan to do local flying was not known to
anybody before August 27, 1992. This aircraft B-200, VI-EOA had
gone to Leh on the morning of August 27, 1992 to bring back the
D.G., ITBP. It was around 1000 hrs. or so that Capt. Dhaliwal
enquired about the expected time of arrival of this plane from Leh
and instructed Asstt. Commandant, Dinesh Singh, Security Officer

BSF Air Wing to keep the aircraft ready on its return from Leh

60


b)

d)

as he wanted to some local Hlying. After ib. coture to Delhi, the
aircraft remained under the constant presence of senior officers
and barring a technician who checked the quantity of fuel in the

aircraft, nobody entered the aircraft.

Capt. Dhaliwal did not mix much with his colleagues and
subordinates in the BSF Air Wing and was not popular with
them. He was considered to be a hard task master and short
tempered. However, during the last few months before the
crash, people noticed that Capt. Dhaliwal had considerably
mellowed down and become more accessible. He was found to
have become more religious and had stopped taking alcohol.
There was some decline in his physical fitness and was noticed
taking special care about his food. He carried his own drinking
water and milk in a thermos flask. There is a suspicion that he
was suffering from some sort of stomach problem which
necessitated consumption of milk at frequent intervals. As per the
evidence collected, people in the BSF Air wing did not bear any

grudge against him.

Capt. Dhaliwal did not care much for the cockpit discipline. He
did all his flying in civies and generally did not put on the
shoulder harness or lap strap while flying. He also occasionally
violated instructions from the ATC. He appeared to be a man in

hurry and this perhaps resulted in his violating safety precautions

sometimes.

Though it is not a normal practice in the BSF to flying the B-200
Super King Air with the single pilot and Capt. Dhaliwal had also
never flown alone in this aircraft earlier, on August 27, 1992 on

the last circuit he was. the sole occupant of this aircraft.

During the night intervening August 26-27, 1992, the aircraft B-
200 VT-EOA was parked inside the BSF Hangar at Palam Airport.
Its doors were locked and the key was in the key box. The BSE

Hangar Ic ed inside the Palam, a well protected area is further

61


guarded by unarmed sentries of the BSE. Assistant Commandant,
Dinesh Singh is incharge of the security of BSF Air Wing and
has got a complement comprising 3 inspectors, | Naik and 12
Constables for this purpose, All the BSF men on the security duty
are subjected to periodical reverification by Delhi Police and ’C’
Branch of the BSF. The lighting, arrangements both outside and
inside the BSE Iangar are adequate. Uhe key of the key box
remains with the Sentry on duty and a record is kept whenever
the key of the aircraft is withdrawn from the key box. The
possibility of any unauthorised person gaining access to the
aircraft is non-existent, All the technicians, Senior Officers and
Security personnel who were on duty in the BSF Hangar on the
night intervening August 26-27, 1992 or who had access to this
aircraft on the morning of August 27 were found to be above

board after a thorough record check.

The ill fated aircraft left Palam Airport at 0700 hrs. on August 27,
1992 and landed at Leh around 0900 hrs. the same day. It took
off from Leh around 0915 hrs. and landed at Palam around 1100
hrs. During the flight both ways the aircraft behaved alright and
no snag was detected, a fact corroborated by all the crew members
who were on board the aircraft, Capt. A.K Jha of BSF who piloted,
the flight from Delhi to Leh and back acted as co-pilot with Capt.
Dhaliwal when latter went for local flying in the same aircraft.
Capt. Jha completed two circuits along with Capt. Dhaliwal and
did not notice any trouble whatsoever in the aircratt. He, however,
noticed that while doing these circuits, Capt. Dhaliwal reduced the
engine RPM abruptly which Capt. Jha had to set right cach time.
After second circuit, on request, the ATC cleared the aircraft to
return to BSF Hangar. However, later Capt. Dhaliwal desired Capt.
Jha to seek permission for one more circuit and this was also
cleared by the ATC. It appears that Capt. Dhaliwal was not very
firm on doing the third circuit as at least thrice the aircraft went
up to the runway and returned to the taxi holding ‘E’ on the
pretext of checking the door. Capt. Dhaliwal every time asked his
co-pilot Capt. Jha to check the aircraft door for some imaginary

62


noise which Capt. Jha himself did not notice. ‘Twice Capt. Jha was
made to go out of the aircraft to check the door and: on the
second occasion Capt. Dhaliwal did not want him to come back
into the aircraft to accompany him on the third circuit. Lt is not
clear as to why Capt. Dhaliwal behaved in this manner as any
malfunctioning of the door is indicated on the instrument panel
and if panel was not showing any abnormality, there was no

reason to carry out manual inspection of the door time and again.

g) Though the ATC had allowed the third circuit to B-200 VI-EOA,
it did not give it take off clearance due to some other traffic.
However, Capt. Dhaliwal violated the ATC’s instructions and went
ahead with the third circuit forcing the other Air Force aircraft
to abort its take off. Repeated calls/ queries from the ATC directed
towards Capt. Dhaliwal remained un-answered, Only a feeble ‘Go

ahead’ was heard from him a little before the crash.

On the basis of the aforementioned, the possibility of sabotage
being the cause of this crash is totally ruled out. Similarly, the
possibility of some body intentionally tampering with the aircraft

appears to be non-existent.

23 HUMAN FAILURE ASPECTS :

2.3.1 WAS IT A CASE OF SUICIDE ?

a)
i)

FACTS ON RECORD :
CREW COMPOSITION :

Though the Super King Air aircraft is certified to be flown by a single
pilot crew, the practice followed in BS.E. was that along with a pilot,
the co-pilot’s seat was occupied by either another pilot, engineer, radio
officer or a technician. Capt. Jha and Shri Nair, Radio Operator were to
accompany Capt. Dhaliwal for his local flying sortie on the fateful day.
As Shri Nair was closing the door after coming inside the aircraft Capt.
Dhaliwal told him that he need not come on board as he had already
done the sortie to Leh and back the same morning. The committee is of
the opinion that there is nothing abnormal in Shri Nair getting down as

there being two pilots on board, there was no necessity for a third

63

member. After doing two circuits the aircraft was cleared to go back to
BSF hanger by the ATC when Capt. Dhaliwal decided to do one more
circuit, After having commenced the take off roll tor the third circuit
Capt. Dhaliwal reported to ATC that there will be a delay of two to
three minutes as there was something wrong with the door, Capt. Jha,
the co-pilol, went back and checked the door from inside and found
nothing wrong. The aircraft taxied out but Capt. Dhaliwal was not
satisfied with the door. He again retirned to the taxi holding point and
asked Capt. Jha to recheck the door from outside, Capt. Jha got down
and locked the door from outside and after confirmation from Capt.
Dhaliwal through sign signal, was asked to come inside. This exercise
was repeated once again; but this time Capt. Dhaliwal told Capt. Jha to
stay out only and decided to §0 for the third circuil alone, which was
quite strange to say the least. The fateful third circuit had Capt.
Dhaliwal as the sole occupant of the aircraft. Though there is more
probability of the pilot without the head set to hear any sound from the
rear of the cabin, it could not be ascertained as to what noise Capt.
Dhaliwal could have heard. Capt. Jha never found any thing wrong
with the door and even the door warning light which ituminates

whenever the door is open remained off.

Tt was well within the rules for Capt. Dhaliwal to fly single pilot in the
aircraft, though as a practice it has never been done before. The acute
uncertainty of the pilot leads one to conclude that there was some
confusion creeping into his mind. The noise he heard could have been
a figment of his imagination. His leaving Capt. Jha on the taxi track
and not in the dispersal and proceeding on a solo circuit is in violation
of laid down norms of flying discipline and leads one to think that at
this stage his mental frame had been affected severely enough to lead

him to undertake a chain of unwarranted actions.

R/T TRANSMISSION :

HS-748 aircraft cal] sign VVF and Capt. Dhaliwal’s aircraft were Cleared
to line up and wait on the two different runways, R/W 27 and R/W 28
respectively. Later VVF was cleared for take off by the air traffic control.
As VVF started rolling {. take off Capt. Dhaliwal also started rolling

~~ 64

and did not respond to the Air Traffic Control's instructions not to do
so. The pilot of VVE saw Capt. Dhaliwal’s aireratt gelling airborne and
he abandoned his take off avoiding a possible dangerous situation after
getting airborne. After repeated calls by the Air Traffic Controller, Capt.
Dhaliwal just replied once "Co ahead Sir". On the time scale Capt.
Dhaliwal replied the air traffic controller approximately 40. seconds
before the crash. It can be reasonably assumed that K/‘T set of Capt.

Dhaliwal’s aircraft was working normal till the aircraft crashed.

Capt. Dhaliwal was not a disciplined flier, having a casual attitude to
cockpit discipline as stated by Witness No. 21 Capt. Jha and Witess
No. 22 Mr. Nair Capt. Dhaliwal took off without clearance from the
Control Tower. There is a possibility that Capt. Dhaliwal mistook the
clearance for VVFE as for him and started rolling, but the fact that
subsequent calls of the ATCustructing him to cancel his take-off were
not adhered to by him, shows that he intentionally violated the ATC

instructions.

The Committee is of the opinion that’ if he had mistook the take-off
clearance given to VVF by the ATC as for him, his R/T receiver was
working satisfactorily and as such he must have also heard the ATC’s
further instructions asking him to cancel his take-off after he had
commenced his take-off run. The possibility of deliberate take-off

violating the instructions of ATC cannot be ruled out.

COCKPIT DISCIPLINE :
NE Io CIPLINE

Capt. Dhaliwal was not a very disciplined pilot having a casual attitude
towards cockpit discipline as stated by witness No. 21 Capt. Jha and
witness No. 22 Mr. Nair. He used to fly in civil clothes and was
reluctant to wear his seat harness during flying. This was evident by
the fact that his body was found clear of the pilot's seat and the seat

harness was found in the locked position.

AIRCRAFT CONFIGURATION :
SAE LUNFIGURATION

While carrying out circuits and landings, undercarriage and flaps are

retracted after take-off at a safe height and speed but when executing

65


short circuits, it is a normal practice that undercarriage is left down and

flaps left at 40 percent after getting airborne during the circuit,

The detailed examination of the wreckage revealed the inboard and
outboard flaps actuator Position measured to flap selection of 40 percent
and both the main gears and the nose Bear were found stuck in the
down and locked position.

ENGINE POWRR :
SUN POWER

As per witness No, 8 Sq. Ldr. Rajiv Gupta, pilot of VVE, who saw Capt.
Dhaliwal’s aircraft loosing height on down wind, the props of Capt.
Dhaliwal’s aircratt Seemed turning indicating that engines were not shut
down and propellers feathered,

This has been substantiated by the engine report which Says that the
- Starboard engine had a moderate power and the port engine was
running at moderate to high power at the lime of the accident, This
_ was further substantiated by the fact that the Starboard torque meter was

found stuck at 1800 ft Ibs. which means very high power setting.

AIRCRAFT ATTITUDE :
_ As per witness No, 8 Sq. Ldr. Rajiv Gupta, who saw Capt’s Dhaliwal’s
aircraft going down on down wind, the attitude of the aircraft did not
_ look very steep though it was steeper than a norma! approach. As per
witness No. 2] Capt. Jha, the dive angle appeared to be that of an
_ . approach without power. As per these eyewitnesses, both pilots, the
attitude was not very steep when the aircraft crashed though the manner
. in which the tal] §lass was cut at the point of impact indicates a steep
angle of about 22 degrees, The needle of one of the air speed indicators
7 was found stuck at 210 knots. This indicates that the aircraft has
impacted the ground at high speed in a nose down attitude with

moderate to high power causing disintegration on impact.

After going through the facts on record as Mentioned above, the Comittee
is of the Opinion that the possibility of a deliberate atlempl to take one’s life
cannot be ruled out in the case of Capi. Dhaliwal,

66

eee

b)

The Committee carried out further investigations to find out if any
reason could be found which could have compelled Capt. Dhaliwal to

commit suicide. The following aspects were looked into :

FAMILY BACKGROUND -

Late Capt. Dhaliwal’s family consisted beside him, his wife one son who
is studying in college and one daughter who is a Doctor. The fainily is
financially sound and Mrs. Dhaliwal is running a school at Gurgaon in
their private residential house (the property is worth several lakhs of
Rupees). The impression that the Committee members got after meeting
the family was that it was a well knit family where every one cared for
each other. This was substantiated by some witnesses also who were

closely associated with Capt. Dhaliwal.

A number of persons with whom Capt. Dhaliwal came in close contact
on the fateful day when cross-examined said that on the day of accident

they did not observe any change in his general behaviour and
appearance.

CAREER IN BSF. : :

Capt. Dhaliwal was in inducted in the BSE on deputation from the Air
Force on 7.2.72 and was 8iven the acting rank of LC. On 216.88. Ele was
confirmed in the rank of Director (Air) w.ef, 8.11.89. He was decorated
with Police medal for Meritorious Service in 1979 and President's Police
Medal in 1988. He was the founder member of the BSF Air Wing. His

promotions and awards suggest that his career was progressing well in
the B.S.F,

DEPARTMENTAL INQUIRY :

A paper cutting was made available to the Committee (Exhibit No...
Evidence Polder) in which it was stated that there was some secret
inquiry ordered against Capt. Dhaliwal by 'G’ branch of BSF and that
the school premises being run by his wife were raided. On inquiring
from the D.G., BSF. regarding any departmental inquiry against Capt.

Dhaliwal, the Committee was told that no such inquiry was ordered or

ger


held against Capt. Dhaliwal during the last 6 months preceding his

death. To confirm any truth in the paper statement one of the committee
members visited Gurgaon Police Station to check if the school premises
run by Capt. Ddhaliwal’s wife was ever raided. Tl was contirmed that no

such raids was ever conducted at the school preniises.

DIFFERENCES WITLLTHE D.C, -

Witness No. 2] Capt. Jha says that ever since Shri Anantachari took ever
as D.G., B.S.F. Capt. Dhaliwal's relations with him were not very cordial.
He said that earlier whenever the previous D.G. went on a tour, Capt.
Dhaliwal used to fly the aircraft for him. But, he never flew Shri
Anantachari. He further stated that on many occasions it was observed
that the present D.G. did not attach the same importance to Capt.
Dhaliwal as was accorded to him by previous DGs. Witness No...Shri
Beri, Asstt. Director (Air) Operations, B.S.F. said that after Shri T.
Anantachari took over as D.G., B.S.F., he started exercising full control
over the Air Wing. This was naturally not liked by Capt. Dhaliwal but
with the passage of time late Capt. Dhaliwal reconciled to the changed

circumstances.

EXECUTION OF WILL :

Mrs. Dhaliwal in her statement says, "[ am not aware of any will
executed. There is no will in the house. Even in office | was told: he had
not left any nomination, My children had to sign a bond stating that the
entire gratuity be given to me. I am aware of only his PLI having my
name as nominee. On scrutiny from the personal files of Late Capt.
Dhaliwal it was ascertained that he had not made any nomination for

his provident fund and his gratuity.

GENERAL BEHAVIOUR :

Capt. Dhaliwal was a very religious person. He was very strict in his
dealings with his subordinates. Of late he had calmed down
considerably. All the witnesses who had come in contact with him on
the fateful day of the crash did not find any difference in his behaviour
from normal, Wg. Cdr. Beri who is looking after the operations in the

BSF AIR WING met ¢ Dhaliwal just before he entered the aircraft

68

2.3.2

to ask him if he would like to do the Home Minister's flight the next
day. Capt. Dhaliwal told him that he would like to fly the Home

Minister the next day as he had not flown with him for a long time.

It is evident from this that Capt. Dhaliwal’s behaviour on the day of the
crash was normal and he did not give any indication that he was

perturbed on anything.

FLYING SKILL :

Capt. Dhaliwal was an examiner pilot on the Super King Air and the

HS-748 of the B.S.F. He was a very experienced pilot having more than

13000 hrs. to his credit. He last flew this type aircraft on Sth Aug.,92 for
_ 2 hrs. 45 Mts.

Capt. Jha who accompanied him for the previous two circuits and
landing, apart from noticing him reduce the power abruptly on circuit

did not notice anything abnormal in his handling of the aircraft.

It is evident that the aircraft, could not have’ crashed) due to Capt.

Dhaliwal’s inelliciency in flying skill,

Although the probability of Capt. Dhaliwal comunitting suicide cannot be ruled

out, the Committee could not arrive at any convincing reason which could have

compelled Capt. Dhaliwal to take his life.

WAS IT A CASE OF PILOT'S INCAPACITATION ?

The aspect of incapacitation was looked into at length by the Committee, The

folowing aspects were covered :

MEDICAL HISTORY :

Capt. Dhaliwal used to undergo medical tests twice a year at the Central
Medical Establishment of the Air Force for his license renewal. The last medical

was done in April, 92 and he was declared fully fit for flying duties.

During cross examination witness No. 41 Mrs. Manjit Dhaliwal, said "Ele had

a very sensitive stomach. He had stomach trouble first time in 1972. He ever

69


since started taking light food only. Every time he went outstation he would

invariably return with stomach trouble,"

It is evident that though Capt. Dhaliwal had no medical history, he had been

suffering from Stomach ailment.

HEART AILMENT :
SSN AILMENT

Witness No. 3 Dr.Choubey, in his post mortem report initially said that it could
be ascertained that the death of Capt. Dhaliwal was not caused by heart
attack. On further cross examination he said "By Carrying out post mortem one
can detect coronary disease. There are 10% of cases where cause of death
cannot be ascertained ever after carrying out detailed post mortem examination,
Tt is not possible to detect the cause of heart failure due to cardiac arrythmia,

low blood pressure and low blood sugar by carrying out Post morteny,"

This implies that heart failure due to cardiac arrythmia, low blood pressure or

low blood Sugar cannot be ruled out.

SELF MEDICATION :

Capt. Dhaliwal though medically fit on record was suffering from stomach
ailment since 1972, Witness No. 41 Mrs, Manjit Dhaliwal wite of Capt. Dhaliwal
said "He used to regularly take ayurvedic medicines such as Hajmola churn
to overcome this problem. He had even stopped taking alcohol for the past 4
to 5 years, At home he used to prefer soup, corn flakes, honey, chutney,
Papaya, jams and daliya. He never went to a Doctor with his ailment." When
asked about Capt. Dhaliwal taking Mentat tablets, she replied that she was not
aware that he took mentat tablets at all, though she said that he used to take
new medicines on recommendation of known people who had tied the
medicines themselves to overcome his stomach problems. New medicines such
as Zymnet, Kayam Churn and Sualin in tablets were found on his person on

a few occasions.
Tt is evident that Capt. Dhaliwal was suffering from Stomach disorder. He

never reported the matter to his doctors and to Overcome his disorder used to

rely on ayurvedic medicines prescribed by his friends,

70

MENTAT TABLETS :

A unsealed packet of mentat tablets was recovered from the pocket of Capt.
Dhaliwal after the crash. Witness No. 5 Dr. Agnihotri in his statement said
that if mentat tablets are taken in excess on an empty stomach it can cause a
drop in blood pressure and induce drowsiness and sleep. Its manifestation can
be scen after about 3 hour. There exists a possibility that Capt. Dhaliwal who
according to his cook had taken only porridge (daliya) in the morning and post
mortem examimation showed hint empty stomach took these mentat tablets
before he went to the airport. As per witness No. 7 Dr. Panda gastric
disorders can also cause drop in blood pressure and mental black outs, there
by seriously affecting the decision making capability of the pilot. If this black
out is prolonged the pilot can loose consciousness as well. ‘he committee after
seeing the circumstantial evidence feels that if Capt. Dhaliwal had taken Mentat
tablets before the flight, the possibility of his becoming drowsy and

subsequently blacking out cannot be ruled out.

ALERTNESS IN THE COCKPIT :

When witness No. 3 Dr. Choubey was specifically asked whether it was

medically possible to determine if the pilot was alert and in senses at the time
of crash, his answer was that it was not medically possible to comment on
this aspect. Witness No. 1 Wg. Cdr. Bhalla ADG medical services Civil Avia-
tion when put this specific question, said that whether the pilot had control

over senses or not could not be ascertained medically.

After deliberating on the circumstantial evidence available and the statements
of the witnesses and in the absence of a CVR, FDR or an eye witness the
committee is of the opinions that incapacitation of the pilot under the

circumstances cannot be ruled out.

Sununing, up the above paras 2.3.1 & 2.3.2, it can be said Chat the probability
of a deliberate attempt to crash the aircraft on the part of late Capt. Dhaliwal
cannot be ruled out. But in the absence of any justifiable reason which could
have compelled late Capt. Dhaliwal to act in such a manner and take the
extreme step, the probability of his Incapacilation during, the last cireuit can

also not be ruled out.

71


2.4
241

2.4.2

POST CRASH ACTIONS :
Photography of Dead Body at Crash Site :

The dead body of late Capt. Dhaliwal was removed from the site without
photography although it is laid down in the Air Safety Circular No. 3 of 1984
of DGCA that the Police Authorities shall take the photographs prior to the
dead body removal. Body was removed by IAAI Fire Services without taking
the photographs. Fire Service staff was also not aware of this requirement,
Photographs of the body were only taken after the body was removed from

the site.

Post Mortem and Preservation of Viscera :

The post mortem of the crew bodies have to be carried out as per the
guidelines laid down in the Air safety Circular No. 3 of 1984 of DGCA. In
this case, doctor We. Cdr. Bhalla, an aviation medicine Specialist of Air Force
was requested by the DGCA to associate with the post mortem. Though he
was not given the Air Safety Circular 3 of 1984, he being aviation medicine
expert, was fully aware of the requirements of the detailed examination in case
of air crashes. Viscera was preserved as per the guidance of Dr. Bhalla.
DGCA deputed one of their officer’s to take heart sample to the IAM,
Bangalore to check the possibility of a heart attack. Rest of the viscera was
taken in possession by the Mahipalpur Police Station for sending the same to
Central Forensic Scientific Laboratory (CFSL) as per the directions of Forensic
expert of Safdarjung Hospital. It takes about a week to send the viscera to
CFSL from the Police Station in the normal course. The Police Station and the
CFSL maintain viscera in the ambient conditions only due to non-availability
of refrigeration facilities. Most of the viscera is kept in preservatives except
for the blood. In the instant case, the blood sample was not having
preservative and neither is it recommended and hence it got putrefied with the
passage of time in the ambient temperature conditions. Except for blood, the
other viscera samples could be properly analysed due to preservatives being

used.

72


3.1

CONCLUSIONS :
FINDINGS :
Super King Air Aircraft B-200 C VT-EOA was having a valid Certificate of

Airworthiness and was being maintained as per the DGCA approved schedules.

This aircraft was a comparatively new aireraft (purchased in 1987) and had

done 1347 hours since new. Both the engines had also done the same hours.

No defect was reported on fhe aircraft after April,92 and on the date of
accident the morning flight Delhi-Leh-Delhi was Operated without any reported
snag. Also the two circuits before the accident were completed: without any

snag.

Aircraft weight and centre of gravity were within limits and there was

sufficient fuel to carry out the circuits.
Weather was good and not contributory to the accident.

Late Capt. T.S. Dhaliwal was having current ALTP licence No.773 and was
holding examiner approval on the Super King Air and Avro aircraft. He had
total flying experience of 13519 hrs. out of which he had around 1100 hrs. on

Super King Aircraft.

On 27.8.92 Late Capt. Dhaliwal filed the flight plan for carrying out local

flying on this aircraft after its return from Leh.

This aircraft arrived from Leh at 1100 hrs. and al 1133 Late Capt. Dhaliwal
with Capt. Jha as co-pilot taxied out to runway 28 for carrying out circuits and
landings. It took off at 1136 hrs. and landed back at (140 hrs. After this he

did touch and go for carrying out the second circuit which was a short circuit.

After the second circuit, initially, late Capt. Dhaliwal decided to do a full stop
landing but later on changed the idea and requested Air Traffic Control for
third circuit which was cleared. After the aircraft lined up Late Capt, Dhaliwal
informed tower that he was vacating runway due to some problem with the

door. On ’E’ taxi track Capt. Jha checked the door and was disembarked. Later

73

10.

11.

13.

14.

16.

17.

on Late Capt. Dhaliwal lined up on runway 28 at 1157 hys. and took off

without clearance from the tower.

Aircraft was repeatedly called by the tower and the last transmission was 'Go
ahead Sir’ by late Capt. Dhaliwal approximately 40 seconds before the aircraft
crashed. The aircraft was seen going down after it turned on down wind. The
aircraft hit the ground in pitch down and wing level attitude and suffered

severe impact leading to disintegration of the aircralt,

The crushed aircraft main wreckage afler initial impact remained in air for
about 350 ft. before falling into the ditch in inverted condition, Wreckage
was scattered all along the path of main wreckage travel. The pilot was killed

during the crash.

Fire started immediately after the impact due to disintegration of aircraft with
fuel catching fire. The fire was extinguished by the NSG Commandos whose

unit is located nearby the accident site.

Wreckage analysis revealed that aurcraft made a high speed impact with the
ground in a steep angle. Undercarriage was down with the flaps in take off

position of 40 percent,

Flying controls, engine and propellers examination revealed no pre crash

failure. Any aircraft system failure contributing to accident is ruled out.

Wreckage examination by explosive ex erts, perusal of intelligence re orts
8 P

connected with activities of various terrorist/extrentist §roups active in the
country and also examination of the conduct of personnel connected with BSE

Air Wing rule out the possibility of sabotage.

Post mortem report of Late Capt. Dhaliwal has revealed that his death was as

a result of injuries inflicted during crash.

Pathological examination of blood, heart, brain, muscle, kidney and the mentat
Ayurvedic tablet has not revealed any positive symptom for cardiac arrest and

effect of narcotics.

74


CAUSE OF ACCIDENT :

~ The exact cause of the accident could not be confirmed, however, on the basis

of the evidence on record, the probability of a deliberate attempt to crash the
_ aircraft on the part of late Capt. Dhaliwal cannot be ruled out. However, in

the absence of any justifiable reason which could have compelled late Capt.

Dhaliwal to act in such a manner and take the extreme step, the probability
“of his incapacitation during the last circuit can also nol be ruled out.

“RECOMMENDATIONS :

Consideration be given to ensure that twin engined aircraft are flawn by two

“pilots irrespective whether it is being used by VIPs or not.

a\ir Safety Circular No.3 of 1984 should be widely circulated specially to all
major hospitals and alf Airport Police Stations and its, compliance be ensured
during air crashes.

DGCA may take steps to ensure that complete viscera of dead air crew be sent
to IAM, Bangalore for analysis after an air crash.

Consideration be given for installation of CVR with under water locator on all

the twin engine aircraft irrespective of their all-up-weight.

DGCA should lay down the requirements of technical/ performance refresher
‘curses for pilots engaged in flying other than those in commercial

weganisations to ensure high standards in flying are maintained at all times.

IGCA may consider for laying down norms for dual training and checks in
ase of break in flying of ALTP holders other than those employed in
ommercial organisations as well.

ll the medical officers employed for Air crew/ Airport duties should undergo
asic courses in Aviation medicine at Institute of Aviation Medicine IAF

angalore.

‘structions may be issued to operators and airport authorities that before

moval of dead bodies of air crash victims from the site, photographs should
variably be taken.


9. Crash siren/ Alarm facility should also be made available at the Airport Medical
- Inspection rooms,

- 10. Airport authorities should ensure that attendants of ambulances are given
refresher training at regular intervals.

1]. BSF should ensure’ that requirements of Flight duty time and Flight time
limitations, as stipulated in AIC 28/1992 dated 10.12.92, be complied for their
pilots.

~ 12, DGCA to consider introducing preflight medical requirements for crews

engaged in flights where passengers are involved,

13. BSF may review the present strength of maintenance personnel and fill up the
vacancies to ensure higher standards of maintenance all the time.

14. Police authorities be issued instructions that relevant viscera, as suggested by
doctors conducting post mortem of air crew killed in air crashes, be preserved

for enquiry at the hospital having refrigeration facilities.

15. BSF may re-evaluate the present security arrangements for its Air Wing at the

airport.
(R.P.S. GARCHA)
Air Commodore
CHAIRMAN, COMMITTEE OF INQUIRY
4
VY Joye Whe hae lina
(A.K. GUPTA) (V.K. CHANDNA)
Dy. Director, IB Director Air Safety
MEMBER . MEMBER SECRETARY

Place : New Delhi
Date : 28th February, 1993

76

0559

O60]

0602

FROM

VOA
DG

VOA

DG

VOA
DG
VOA

VOA

DG

VOA
VOA

“pg

“VOA

TAPE TRANSCRIP?

DG

VOA

DG

VOA

DG

VOA

DG

DG

VOA

DG

DG.

VOA.

DG

OF DELHI GROUND

121.9 MHZ
as

TEXT

Calling.

Go Ahead,

Req. Start-up for local flying,Sic,
Parked in front of BSF Hangar,
Would like to do 2 or 3 circuits
landings, Sir.

Roger, Alpha,report total no. of
Persons on board,

02 Stir.
Start-up approved .
(Oscar)

Reg. taxi clearance,parking in
front of BSF hangar.

Taxi via Echo, holding point
(cunway) 28.

BSG eS Pah ARGS 6 BL4U E811 g wl

Delhi Tower; 118.1

Roger, Sir, switching over to
118.1 .

Ma be

TIME

0602

0603

0605

0606

0607

0608

0609

ATC TAPE TRANSCRIPT’ PERTAINING TO THE ACCIDENT TO SUPER.

KING AIR B~200¢ AIRCRAFT VT-EOA ON 27.8.92( Tower)

FROM

VOA
DD/TWR
VOA
DD/TWR
VOA

VOA

DD/TWR
VOA

DD/TWR

YOA
DD/TWR
VOA
VOA
DD/TWR
VOA

DD/TWR

VOA

VOA

DD/TWR
VOA
VOA
DD/TWR
VOA
VOA

DD/TWR

TO
Delhi Tower
VOA
DD/TWR
VOA
DD/TWR

DD/TWR

VOA
TWR

VOA

DD/TWR
VOA
DD/TWR
DD/TWR
VOA
DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

DD/TWR

VOA
DD/TWR
DD/TWR
VOA
DD/TWR
DD/TWR

VOA

i \ a : _ “4 moma
s \.

TEXT
DELHI TWR voA
VOA DELHI TWR GO AHBAD
ON "E" SIR,
REPORT HOLDING SHORT ON "E"
ROGER

WILL LIKE TO DO CIRCUIT AND
LANDING IF TRAFFIC PERMITTING SIR.

ROGER

CALLING

VOA TO HOLD POSITION,

VOA AFTER LANDING AIRCRALY

WILL BE LINING UP RWY 28 TAKE
OFF, TURN LEFT, CLIME po 2500 REPORT

Down WIND ON QONH 1006 HPa.
VOA LINING UP 28 SIR,

ROGER, LINE UP AND HOLD

WE ARE CLEAR TO LINE UP AND HOLD.
VOA READY FOR TAKE OFF

HOLD POSITION

ROGER

VOA ‘CLEAR FOR TAKE OFF
WIND 960/03 kts.

VOA ROLLING SIR.

VOA 2500°TURNING PORT, WILL
REPORT DOWN WIND SIR.

REPORT DOWN WIND
ACKNOWLEDGED.

VOA REPORTING DOWN WIND
ROGER,REPORT FINAL FOR RWY 28
VOA

VOA TURNING BASE LEG.

REPORT FINAL
(o* C

ww ¥ phe

TIME

9610

0611

0612

0613

-0614

0615 -

FROM

VOA
DD/TWR
VOA

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

VOA
VOA
VOA
DD/TWR
VOA
DD/TWR
VOA
VOA

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

VOA
VOA

DD/TWR

VOA
DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR
VOR
DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR
DD/TWR
DD/TWR
VOA

DD/TWR
VOA

DD/TWR
DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR
DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

VOR

DD/TWR

TEXT

VOA TURNING FINALS, THREE GREENS.
VOA CLEAR TO LAND WIND 310/08 kts.
VOA

VOA CONFIRM MAKING FULL STOP LANDING
OR TOUCH AND Go.

TOUCH AND GO
ROGER CLEAR FOR TOUCH AND GO WIND
310 CORRECTION
280/08 KTS
VOA ROLLING
ACKNOWLEDGED.
WOULD LIKE TO DO A SHORY CrRCULY
BAD WEATHER CIRCUIT.
CLEARED FOR SHORT CIRCUIT VOA.
ROGER CLEAR FOR SHORT CIRCUIT.
REPORT DOWN WIND RWY 28
(ROGER) Yoa
VOA REPORTING DOWN WIND

REPORT FINAL

VOA TURNING FINAL
THREE GREEN SIR.

ROGER CLEAR FOR TOUCH AND Go
WIND 246/03 KTS

VOA WILL DO FULL STOP SIR.

ROGER CLEAR FOR FULL STOP LANDING
WIND 240/04 KTS

ROGER

VOA RETURNING BACK TO BASE SIR.

ROGER CLEAR FOR BACK TRACK,
REPORT VACATING RWY ON "Bp"

ROGER SIR,WE WILL GO vO BSF HANGER

ROGER

SIR WOULD LIKE TO DO ONE MORE
CIRCUIT iF TRAFFIC PERMITTING,

ROM

0615 DD/TWR

DD/TWR

VOA

0616 DD/TWR

VOR
0617 DD/TWR
VOA

VOA

« DD/TWR

0618 92 DD/TWR

ul
N

|

VOA

Gy
N
Ni
w

|

No
~
pa

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR

D276 VOA

0619 DD/TWR

& D287 VOA

DD/TWR

D288 VOA

DD/TWR

&e2y
DD/TWR

_ DD/TWR

TO

VOA

VOA

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR
VOA
DD/TWR

DD/TWR

VOA
VOA
DD/TWR
VOA

PO/EWR
VOR

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR
VOA

DD/TWR

VOR,

DD/TWR

VOA
VVR

ROGER, ROGER.

ROGER LINE UP FOR RWY 27,
CORRECTION 28,

ROGER LINING UP 28
ROGER LINE UP,

RWY 28

VOA LINE UP RWY 28 AND CLEAR
FOR TAKE OFF WIND 260/03 KTS/
ROGER (VOA)

CLEARED FOR TAKE OFF

VOA ROLLING SIR.

SIR WE ARE CLEARING RWY 28. FOR.-TWO
MINUTES.

ROGER,.
VOA HOW MUCH DELAY
i, MINUTE
SAY AGAIN

STAND BY ONE.
HOW MUCH MARGIN Is THERE POR DELAY,

»
WE GOT TWO DEPARTURE AND ARRIVALS
ALSO.

ROGER

VOA DD/TWR
VOA DD/TWR

GO AHEAD SIR
CONFIRM HOW MUCH IS DELAY

WE ARE JUST CHECKING UP, THERE IS
SOMETHING WRONG WITH THE DOOR SIR.
IT IS JUST ABOUT TWO TO THREE
MINUTES SIR.

ROGER, EXPEDITE

DD/TWR VOR Og
DD/TWR Vie
VOA LINE UP

GO AHEAD

-PINBIC.No.

0621

0622 p319

0624

D361]

0626 D371

w Iw
ai
wm fr

|

0627

had
le
n

390

FROM

VR

VVR
DD/TWR
VOA

DD/TWR

VOA
DD/TWR
VVF

DD/TWR
VVEF

DD/TWR
VOA
VOA
DD/TWR
VVE

DD/TWR

VVE

DD/TWR
VOA

DD/TWR

DD/TWR
DD/TWR

VVE

DD/TWR

TO

DD/TWR

QRETWR

DD/TWR

VOA

DD/TWR
VOA
DD/TWR

VVF
DD/TWR

VOA
DD/TWR
DD/TWR
Vos

DD/TWR

VVF

DD/TWR

VOA
DD/TWR

VVF

VOA
VOA

DD/TWR

VVF

TEXT

AIR BORNE HINDON FOR, YOu MAINTAINING
2500’ PERMISSION TO CALL 10 NM NORTH

SAY AGAIN,
ROGER REPORT 10 NM TNBOUND NORTH, VOR
VOA LINE up,

VOA HOLD POSITION
VOA TO HOLD POS ELON

CONFIRM WE WILL BE DELAYED Now
AFFIRMATIVE EXPECT DELAY 15 MINUTES

CALLING
GOOD MORNING

STANDBY ONEV VF LINE UP RWY 27.AND HOLD.
LINE UP RWY 27,\VP

VOA TO LINE UP RWy 28 AND HonD,

ROGER SIR VOA CLEAR TO LINE UP AND HOLD,
VOA LINING up,

ROGER LINE UP AND HOLD

VVF READY FOR DEPARTURE

VVF COPY ATC, CLEARED TO CHANDIGARH,

CLIMB AND MAINTAIN YO, DEPARTURE SPl,
TAKE OFF HEADING 3500’,

(READ BACK ATC)
VOA TAKE OFF-

~ BOLD POSITION, VOA TO HOLD POSITION

ROGER

VVF IS CLEARED FOR TAKE OFF WIND
280/02 KTS

280/02, rolling VVE. VOA SOME TRANS-—
MISSION ASKING HOLD POSITION.
(BACK GROUND VOICE)

VOA TO HOLD POSITION
VOA I SAY AGAIN CANCEL TAKE.ORF,

VVF IS REJECTING TAKE OFF
ABANDONING TAKE OFF STR.

DELHI/TWR VVF IS ABORTING TAKE OFF

ROGER WILL CALL UP........T0 ate
(TRANSMISSION NOT CLEAR)

i “A foe
. Le _ ee /

~ , TIMEL No, FROM TO
0628 391 DD/TWR VVE
VVP HO/TWR
DD/TWR VVE
DD/TWR VOA
DD/'TWR VUA
DD/TWR VOA
DD/TWR VOR
D397 VOA DD/TWR
DD/TWR VOA
DD/TWR VOA
DD/TWR
0629 VVE
0630 VVR DD/TWR
DD J Fete VVR
(sound of siren)
TWR " vvR
VVR TWR
VVEF/ VVR
NB?
J = Capt. Jha
D= Late Caph U.S. Dhaliwal.
we
“tv
ph
-
_ eae

TEXT

VVF TO HOLD POSITION

REQUEST BACK TRACK 27,

ROGER APPROVED.

VOA DD/TWR

VOA DD/TWR

VOA DD/TWR

VOA DD/TWR

GO AHEAD SIR

YOU HAVE NOT BEEN TOLD TO FoR
TAKE OFF,HOW COULD YoU TAKE OFF
WITHOUT PERMISSION. TWR HAS GIVEN
TAKE OFF CLEARANCE ONLY TO VVE
FROM RWY 27.

(NO.REPLY)

VOA DD/TWR CONFIRM COPIED.

VOA DD/TWR
VOA DD/TWR

VOA SEEMS TO HAVE CRASH,

DD TWR/VVR, VOA HAS CRASHED
DOWN WIN® SIR.

ON

ROGER COPIED.

VVR MAY WE SET COURSE AND WILL
CALL YOU 5 MILES NORTH

NEGATIVE DELHI HANDLING Ellin
SENCY AND AIRCRAFD HAS CRASHED
YOU GO BACK Tu HINDON ATRSPACE
VVR CONFIRM COPIED

ROGER

DIVERTED,

